------


https://dorkmission.blogspot.com/2008/09/informed-criticism-yeah-we-got-that.html?m=1
	I was recently re-reading your May 1997 essay "Where is the informed criticism of Richard Hoagland?" 

	...James Oberg has falsified your allegations of sabotage in respect of Mars Observer, Mars Polar Lander, and Mars Climate Orbiter.

	Are you now going to withdraw the 1997 essay?


https://web.archive.org/web/19980611211010/http://www.lunaranomalies.com/whereis.htm
	MICHAEL BARA - MAY 1997


http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1043/1
	The dark side of space disaster theories
	by James Oberg
	Monday, January 21, 2008


	...However, once a logical reconstruction gels, is tested, and then is ultimately verified by being implemented and hence reducing future flight hazards, that official explanation achieves a substantial level of authenticity. But not to everyone’s satisfaction, apparently, as a search of still-thriving non-traditional explanations of the Apollo 1 fire, the Apollo 13 breakdown, the Challenger disintegration, and the Columbia catastrophe, whose fifth anniversary now approaches.

	For example, in the case of Columbia, YouTube is full of videos from self-styled experts still convinced a freak bolt of ionospheric lightning crippled the spaceship. A famous photograph supposedly shows that bolt, even though space experts have long been satisfied that the bizarre image was merely the result of camera jiggle during a time-lapse exposure.


https://medium.com/hci-design-at-uw/information-wars-a-window-into-the-alternative-media-ecosystem-a1347f32fd8f
	Over time, we noted that a similar kind of rumor kept showing up, over and over again, after each of the man-made crisis events — a conspiracy theory or “alternative narrative” of the event that claimed it either didn’t happen or that it was perpetrated by someone other than the current suspects.


http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1043/1
	Apart from the comic relief value of such crackpot ideas, there’s a darker aspect of this kind of cultural pathology, just as there are serious analyses pointing to the socially toxic effects of the JFK assassination “alternate theories”. For spaceflight, being distracted by the wrong cause means being tempted by the wrong fix. That’s never amusing, and often can be expensive.


similar to his comments on Popovkin's claims of sabotage

	Dark Mission portrays the failure of the Mars Observer probe in 1993 as a deliberate act by NASA to prevent the publication of its expected photographs of artificial Martian ruins. But the description of the events is inconsistent with well-documented accounts, reports non-existent events, and omits well-known explanations for important features of the probe’s flight plan. All of this can be easily confirmed through Internet searches.


sounds like book authors and Oberg are both liars? but I guess the book was somehwat popular, which is Oberg's stated reason for calling attention to it


	...In a simple reading comprehension verification test, this one incident indicates a severe problem with the book’s authors’ ability to understand, and restate, simple English about space technology. In one sentence, there were three swings, and three misses—three strikes.


Is he being condescending on purpose? doing the same thing he always does--deny rumors in a way that makes people think they're true


	...By the way, after NASA’s official denunciations of the UPI story I had written (I have the honor of being the only journalist ever denounced by name in an official NASA press release), the story turned out even worse than I had written. Space engineers hadn’t fudged the test results, after all. My source was wrong about this, this time, the first occasion in a long sequence of accurate leaks. What was far worse was that NASA had decided that any such tests weren’t even necessary. The engine ignition system was never tested at temperatures expected out at Mars, because (JPL said) the engine had already flown in space on some other mission and so didn’t need to be requalified. But NASA press officials, despite repeated inquiries from me and promises of cooperation from them, never disclosed the space mission(s) that these special engines had been originally flown on.


NASA denounced Oberg, who blames his "sources"


something going on here?


	The same design engines are installed aboard the Mars Phoenix lander now on route. Hopefully, improvements have been made.



------


Here's what the "Dark Mission" book cites on Oberg's UPI article:

https://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/planetary/text/mpl_pr_20000322.txt
	March 22, 2000

	James Oberg of UPI claims that NASA knew there was a problem  with the Mars Polar Lander propulsion system prior to the Dec. 3 landing attempt and "withheld this conclusion from the public." NASA categorically denies this charge.


	...*   Had UPI researched the public documents released on Nov. 10, 
which have been available online at the NASA Home Page, the 
reporter would have been able to conclude that NASA did indeed 
publicly address propulsion issues, and specifically, the 
propulsion system's "catalyst bed" temperature concern.

	*   Based on this review, NASA knew about the concerns with the 
propulsion system, NASA took corrective action, and NASA hid 
nothing from the public.  We made our concerns known in early 
November.


	...Both the Stephenson and Casani (John Casani, retired JPL 
flight programs head and also director of mission assurance) teams 
have conducted intensive reviews relating to Mars Polar Lander, 
and their teams have surfaced no evidence relating to thruster 
acceptance testing irregularities as alleged by UPI.  In fact, 
members of the review teams are using words like "bunk," "complete 
nonsense," and "wacko," to describe their reactions to UPI's 
charge. 


NASA: Oberg "wacko"



http://www.upi.com/Archives/2000/03/21/NASA-denies-hiding-Mars-probe-flaws/5905953614800/
	NASA denies hiding Mars probe flaws
	March 21, 2000

	By JAMES OBERG

	HOUSTON, March 21 (UPI) -- A NASA spokesman vigorously denied a United Press International article that NASA knew that the Mars Polar Orbiter was doomed prior to its December crash into Mars but kept the information from the public.

	...The loss of the first probe was explained by NASA last week as management error. Program officials without adequate experience or training did not recognize and react to a series of clues that the vehicle was off course.

	...Welch specifically denied that NASA's concerns over the Mars craft's braking engine were covered up. He cited a Nov. 10 news conference at which the concerns were disclosed.


sounds like this is responding to the Welch statement in text doc above

Oberg sounds like he's arguing with them, attacking them, later blames his "source"


here's the article that started the back and forth:


http://pages.suddenlink.net/anomalousimages/images/news/news580.html
	NASA knew Mars Polar Lander doomed

	United Press International - March 21, 2000 15:01

	By James Oberg, UPI Space Writer

	HOUSTON, March 21 (UPI) -- The disappearance of NASA's Mars Polar Lander last December was no surprise to space officials, UPI has learned. 

	Prior to its arrival at Mars, a review board had already identified a fatal design flaw with the braking thrusters that doomed the mission, but NASA withheld this conclusion from the public.

	...A source close to the panel probing the second accident has told UPI that its conclusions are "devastating" to NASA's reputation. Unlike the previous accident, where management errors merely prevented the recognition of other human errors, in this case it was a management misjudgment which caused the fatal flaw in the first place.


Oberg says "poor management" at NASA caused the crashes, similar to accusations at Roscosmos


------

http://sunnyday.mit.edu/accidents/mco-oberg.htm
	Why The Mars Probe Went Off Course

	By James Oberg

	SPECTRUM Magazine

	December 1999


	...Then, on 23 September, through a series of still-baffling errors, flight controllers at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, a California Institute of Technology facility under contract to NASA, sent erroneous steering commands to the Mars Climate Orbiter as it neared the target planet. Obeying blindly like all true robots, the probe, metaphorically speaking, marched off the cliff and was destroyed.


a different story from pounds and newtons mixup?

	...NASA assigned three separate teams to investigate the embarrassing, US $125 million debacle and determine its cause. Preliminary public statements faulted a slip-up between the probe's builders and its operators, a failure to convert th e English units of measurement used in construction into the metric units used fo r operation.


ok no its the same thing


http://articles.latimes.com/1999/oct/01/news/mn-17288
	NASA lost its $125-million Mars Climate Orbiter because spacecraft engineers failed to convert from English to metric measurements when exchanging vital data before the craft was launched, space agency officials said Thursday.

	A navigation team at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory used the metric system of millimeters and meters in its calculations, while Lockheed Martin Astronautics in Denver, which designed and built the spacecraft, provided crucial acceleration data in the English system of inches, feet and pounds.

	As a result, JPL engineers mistook acceleration readings measured in English units of pound-seconds for a metric measure of force called newton-seconds.

	In a sense, the spacecraft was lost in translation.

	"That is so dumb," said John Logsdon, director of George Washington University's space policy institute. "There seems to have emerged over the past couple of years a systematic problem in the space community of insufficient attention to detail."


so Lockheed for whatever reason gave them data in wrong units, never specified

gave commands to the probe using those units, then the probe crashed


also by author:


http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-sci-shuttle21dec21-1-story.html
	Decoding Columbia: A detective story 

	By Robert Lee Hotz


http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-sci-shuttle22dec22-2-story.html
	 By the time of its last flight, Columbia was itself a relic of the past.

	Columbia was first launched in 1981 — the year Britney Spears was born and MTV began to broadcast.

	Nursed beyond its intended design life, the $1.8-billion spacecraft had become part of the nation's aging infrastructure, no different in that sense from the overstressed electrical power grid, crumbling bridges and outdated drinking water systems.

	NASA, an aging bureaucracy, had grown less dynamic and more rigid with the passing years.


http://sunnyday.mit.edu/accidents/mco-oberg.htm
	...One down, one to go

	...But if space mission operators learn their harsh lessons better, the exploration of Mars will push ahead. Sometime in the next century, or later, voyagers with far greater range and far sharper sensors than our own may find the orbiter''s remains and come to know exactly how it died. It's enough, now, to know just why it died.


keep saying that space agencies need to "learn lessons." As if they want them to do something? but what?


------

https://books.google.com/books?id=3_7-Cy9HLxgC&pg=PA228&lpg=PA228&dq=Mars+Climate+Orbiter+sabotage&source=bl&ots=qjBdXeIDeM&sig=Mw6v65DorvIori0-2VK1x5v4RCE&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwitquy57p7WAhWDSiYKHW24DL4Q6AEIRDAI#v=onepage&q=Mars%20Climate%20Orbiter%20sabotage&f=false


Same deal as the book Oberg was calling attention to. Alleges sabotage along with crackpot theories.


http://davidaroffman.com/photo2_20.html
	why they altered the data. In short, the coordinates “put there” were not consistent, NASA/JPL has a track record of manipulating MSL weather data, and the possibility of sabotage of Beagle 2 must be investigated.


similar for Beagle 2


------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mars_Polar_Lander
	On December 3, 1999, Mars Polar Lander encountered Mars while mission operators began preparing for landing operations. At 14:39:00 UTC, the cruise stage was jettisoned, beginning a planned communication dropout until the spacecraft had touched down on the surface. Six minutes prior to atmospheric entry, a programmed 80-second thruster firing turned the spacecraft to the proper entry orientation, with the heat shield oriented to absorb the 1,650 °C heat that would be generated as the descent capsule passed through the atmosphere.

	Traveling at 6.9 kilometers per second, the entry capsule entered the Martian atmosphere at 20:10:00 UTC and was expected to land in the vicinity of 76°S 195°W in a region known as Planum Australe. Communication was expected to be reestablished with the spacecraft at 20:39:00 UTC after having landed. However, no communication was possible with the spacecraft and the lander was declared lost.[2][4][5]

	On May 25, 2008 the Phoenix lander arrived at Mars, and has subsequently completed most of the objectives of the Mars Polar Lander, carrying several of the same or derivative instruments.


Wikipedia makes it sound like Mars research was set back 10 yeas


------

https://dorkmission.blogspot.com/2008/04/narrowly-focused-attacks.html
	Another gem from that Australian tape (which, btw, must surely have been from 1993, not 1992) was Hoagland's confident-sounding assertion that the Mars Observer mission was sabotaged by the US Federal Goverment without NASA's approval or knowledge. Just think about that. It means that some other federal agency has the means of tracking and communicating with a spacecraft, and expertise on its vulnerability, without the knowledge of, or any co-operation from, JPL mission controllers or the manufacturer (Martin Marietta). Really hilarious.

	As James Oberg has also pointed out, Richard Hoagland must be really scratching his head trying to figure out how on Earth Global Surveyor, Pathfinder, Odyssey, Mars Express, and Reconnaissance Orbiter were permitted to succeed. Most of them had far better imaging technology than the spacecraft that were deliberately destroyed. The ruthless cabal of demonic mission-spoilers, dedicated to suppressing knowledge of an ancient Martian civilization, must have fallen asleep at their consoles, presumably. My ribs are aching with laughter.


this guy has a weird blog


------


http://www.smithsonianmag.com/science-nature/ten-enduring-myths-about-the-us-space-program-1969206/
	By Mark Strauss 

	April 14, 2011

	...“The decision to proceed with Apollo was not made because it was enormously popular with the public, despite general acquiescence, but for hard-edged political reasons,” writes Roger D. Launius, the senior curator at Smithsonian’s divison of space history, in the journal Space Policy. “Most of these were related to the Cold War crises of the early 1960s, in which spaceﬂight served as a surrogate for face-to-face military confrontation.” However, that acute sense of crisis was fleeting—and with it, enthusiasm for the Apollo program.


an interesting way to frame it


	4. “During the 1990s, NASA deliberately destroyed its own Mars space probes.”

	Mars is the planetary equivalent of Charlie Brown’s kite-eating tree. During the 1990s, NASA lost three spacecraft destined for the Red Planet: the Mars Observer (which, in 1993, terminated communication just three days before entering orbit); the Mars Polar Lander (which, in 1999, is believed to have crashed during its descent to the Martian surface); and the Mars Climate Orbiter (which, in 1999, burned up in Mars’ upper atmosphere).

	Conspiracy theorists claimed that either aliens had destroyed the spacecraft or that NASA had destroyed its own probes to cover-up evidence of an extraterrestrial civilization.

	The most detailed accusation of sabotage appeared in a controversial 2007 book, Dark Mission: The Secret History of NASA, which declared “no cause for the [Mars Observer’s] loss was ever satisfactorily determined.”

	Dark Horizon “came within one tick mark of making it onto the New York Times bestsellers list for paperback non-fiction,” bemoaned veteran space author and tireless debunker James Oberg in the online journal The Space Review. In that same article, he points out the book’s numerous errors, including the idea that there was never a satisfactory explanation for the probe’s demise. An independent investigation conducted by the Naval Research Laboratory concluded that gases from a fuel rupture caused the Mars Observer to enter a high spin rate, “causing the spacecraft to enter into the ‘contingency mode,’ which interrupted the stored command sequence and thus, did not turn the transmitter on.”

	NASA did have a noteworthy success in the 1990s, with the 1997 landing of the 23-pound Mars rover, the Pathfinder. That is, of course, if you believe it landed on Mars. Some say that the rover’s images were broadcast from Albuquerque.


summarizing the conspiracy theories of sabotage


	...Had JFK not been assassinated in 1963, it is possible that the space race to the Moon would instead have been a joint venture with the Soviet Union.

	Initially, the young president saw winning the space race as a way to enhance America’s prestige and, more broadly, to demonstrate to the world what democratic societies could accomplish.

	However, JFK began to think differently as relations with the Soviet Union gradually thawed in the aftermath of the Cuban missile crisis and the costs of the Moon program became increasingly exorbitant. Nor was America confident at that time that it could beat the Soviet Union. And, in his recent book, John F. Kennedy and the Race to the Moon, space historian John Logsdon notes that the president also believed that the offer of a cooperative mission could be used as a bargaining chip in Washington’s diplomatic dealings with Moscow.

	In a September 1963 speech before the United Nations, JFK publicly raised the possibility of a joint expedition: “Space offers no problems of sovereignty…why, therefore, should man’s first flight to the moon be a matter of national competition? Why should the United States and the Soviet Union, in preparing for such expeditions, become involved in immense duplications of research, construction and expenditure?”

	But, the prospect of a U.S.-Soviet mission to the Moon died with Kennedy. Winning the space race continued to drive the Apollo program. Eventually, “the U.S. space program, and particularly the lunar landing effort,” Logsdon writes, became “a memorial” to JFK, who had pledged to send a man to the Moon and return him safely by the end of the decade.


funny
