
https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-113hhrg92331/html/CHRG-113hhrg92331.htm
	Mr. Bridenstine. And, Mr. Chairman, if you will entertain 
me for just a few seconds here, I would like to ask one last 
question, which is the report here that we commissioned, $3.2 
million, 18 months, a lot of experts, they indicate that given 
our flat funding for the human spaceflight directorate that we 
are not going to accomplish that mission of getting to the 
Mars. Given where we are with flat funding, do you agree with 
that assessment?
    Mr. Gerstenmaier. We are going to need some funding level 
above flat funding.
    Mr. Bridenstine. Would you be willing to come back and 
provide us what kind of funding level is necessary in order to 
accomplish the objective?
    Mr. Gerstenmaier. We could--we can provide that and we can 
take that for the record and describe that to you. Again, it is 
going to be a function of the time frame and the time frame is 
driven not only by the funding requirement but it is also by 
have we gained enough experience in cislunar space, have we 
bought down enough technical risk, have we--are we ready to 
take that next step? So there are several components. It is 
more than just a budget discussion; there is also the technical 
speed and the assurance of what we can learn during this period 
moving forward.
    Mr. Bridenstine. And that obviously would require more 
flight frequency than what we are currently getting?
    Mr. Gerstenmaier. Potentially, yes.



Bridenstine doesn't seem to outright be against Mars mission like Rohrenbacher, but emphasizes cost


    Mr. Bridenstine. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    And, Ms. Edwards, I do agree with you and your comments are 
certainly well recognized on both sides of the aisle so thank 
you for that. And we would like to work with you on how we can 
remedy this.
    I just had a quick question about the international 
implications of our direction for human spaceflight. The report 
that Ms. Edwards referenced from the National Academies 
indicated that if we were to do this Asteroid Redirect Mission, 
we would be not in alignment with the international community, 
most of which is focused on getting to the moon, namely the 
lunar surface and then on to Mars, and that this misalignment, 
according to the report, again headed by Governor Mitch 
Daniels, indicated that this misalignment could actually result 
in us spending a whole lot of money on dead-end technologies 
rather than actually accomplishing the objective of getting to 
the moon. Mr. Gerstenmaier, could you address that?


Bridenstine goes for "moon first" thing, also questions asteroid redirect


https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-114hhrg20875/pdf/CHRG-114hhrg20875.pdf
Mr. BRIDENSTINE
. Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Ms.  Sigur,  I  wanted  to  second  your  comments  about,  we  need  to  
have  a  vision  and  we  need  to  have  something  that  we  can  stick  to,  
and  I  think  all  of  us  on  this  Committee  on  both  sides  of  the  aisle  
agree  with  that  100  percent,  and  I  agree  with  you  especially  be-
cause  you’re  a  graduate  of  Rice  University,  which  everybody  knows  
is  the  preeminent  engineering  school  in  the  country.  Although  I  
was not an engineer there, I highly respect those who were. 
I  want  to  go  back  for  a  second.  I’m  going  to  sound  like  a  broken  
record  here  but  when  you  think  about  the  space  debris  challenge  that we have, it is very real


Bridenstine, like Rohrabacher, wants NASA to clean up space garbage instead


	I  believe  by  making  the  right  investments  today,  not  only  are  we  
protecting  low-Earth  orbit  but  we’re  protecting  our  ability  to  do  
what’s  necessary  to  get  to  Mars  one  day.  That’s  what  we’re  doing.  
On  the  Mars  issue  going  back  for  a  second,  the  Mitch  Daniel  re-
port that came out, the National Research Council put out a report, 
said, you know, our budgets, the money we are spending today and 
our  missions  and  our  strategy  absolutely  will  not  get  us  to  Mars.  
It  wasn’t  that  it  was  going  to  be  delayed  ten  years  or  delayed  20  
years.  They  flat-out  said  we’re  not  going  to  get  there.  That  should  
have  sounded  an  alarm  for  all  of  us  on  this  Committee.  What  is  
we’re doing wrong? And we need to get real assessments over what 
we’re  doing  wrong  on  this  Committee  so  that  we  can  actually  go  
home  and  tell  our  constituents  that  we  are  not  investing  their  
money in vain. I mean, that should have infuriated all of us on this 
Committee. And so we have those issues. 


Says we won't get to Mars on current budget, doesn't want to increase budget



https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/BILLS-114hr4945ih/pdf/BILLS-114hr4945ih.pdf

Bridenstine bill calls for mission to mars, using moon as preliminary step, against asteroid redirect


https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-114hhrg97761/pdf/CHRG-114hhrg97761.pdf
	Mr. BRIDENSTINE
. [Presiding] The gentleman yields back. 
I recognize the gentleman from Colorado, Mr. Perlmutter, for five 
minutes. 
Mr.  P
ERLMUTTER
.  Gentlemen,  thank  you  for  being  here.  Thank  
you  for  your  service  to  the  country.  Thank  you  for  your  service  to  
the  future  because  that’s  what  this  is  about.  And  I  just  feel  very  
fortunate  that  I  got  a  place  on  this  Committee  to  talk  about  things  
like  this,  and  had  an  astronaut  in  my  office  not  long  ago,  a  guy  
named  Terry  Virts,  and  my  guess  is,  both  of  you  have  worked  with  
him,  where  he  said  this  is  not  rocket  science,  this  is  political  
science,  and  the  part  that  we’re  dealing  with  right  now  is  political  
science, and Mr. Rohrabacher and I, you know, may have some dif-
ferences  but  generally  this  Committee—and  I  have  been  on  a  lot  
of  committees  in  this  Congress.  This  Committee  gets  along  and  
agrees more than almost all the other ones. 
And  so  looking  at  this,  you  know,  we’re  the  authorizing  com-
mittee  so  you  got  the  Budget  Committee,  the  authorizing  com-
mittee  and  the  Appropriations  Committee.  I  on  this  Committee  
would  like  to  be  able  to  give  you  something  that  says  you  are  au-
thorized to get us to Mars as quickly as possible. You know, I’d like 
to  be  able  to  say  something  in  an  authorizing  language—ten  years  
from  now,  we’re  going  to  have  our  astronauts  on  Mars  for  the  fu-
ture,  for  science,  for  discovery,  for  whatever.  And  so  for  us,  if  
there’s  a  goal  of  something  like  that,  then  we’ve  got  to  find  a  way  
to do it so that you can provide a ten-year plan, knowing under the 
Constitution from year to year, no Congress can bind the next Con-
gress—that’s  just  the  way  the  Constitution  is—but  to  give  you  
some  real  guidance  in  setting  a  plan  over  a  period  of  time  to  get  
us there. 
And  so  for  me,  I  just  suggest  to  my  friends  on  this  Committee,  
you  know,  say  this  is  a  national  interest,  it’s  a  huge  investment,  
either  we  raise  taxes  to  make  that  investment,  which,  you  know,  
will  give  some  people,  you  know,  heartache,  or  we  say  we’re  going  
to  prioritize  this  against  the  whole  other  budget,  all  the  other  ap-
propriations.  Or  we  can  do  a  public-private  partnership  and  get  
some  additional  investment,  or  we  could  do  a  joint  venture  with  
some other countries as we’ve done with the Space Station. And I’m 
a  Star  Trek  guy  and  I  look  at  the  bridge  of  the  Enterprise  and  I  
see  every  nationality  possible  and  then  people  from  other  planets  
too.  But  we  can  do  those  kinds  of  things  or  maybe  fee-based,  but  
that’s our problem. That the political science piece of this thing. 
Now,  the  two  of  you  have  had  to  deal  with  Congress,  you’ve  had  
to  deal  with  the  White  House.  What  would  you  suggest  that  we  do  
to give you a ten-year plan? Mr. Cooke? 


sounds wishy-washy, like saying can't fund Mars mission?


https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-114hhrg97570/pdf/CHRG-114hhrg97570.pdf
	Mr.  BRIDENSTINE.  How  confident  are  you  that  they  will  continue  the partnership beyond 2020? 

	Mr.  G
ERSTENMAIER
.  Again,  I  think  they’re  working  through  their  
governmental approval process. I think it’s likely potentially by the 
end  of  this  year  when  their  federal  space  program  gets  approved  
that  there  will  be  an  extension  of  the  Russians  to  support  the  
Space Station through at least 2024. 
Mr.  B
RIDENSTINE
.  Mr.  Elbon,  we  have  heard  the  IG  has  a  report  
indicating  that  the  operations  of  the  ISS  are  going  to  become  more  
difficult  because  of  the  ability  to  take  replacement  parts  to  the  
International  Space  Station.  Recently  Boeing  had  a  report  that  
might  not  have  contradicted  but  dealt  with  some  of  those  issues.  
Can  you  share  with  us  the  Boeing  position?  They  were  suggesting  
that  beyond  2020,  things  get  really  difficult.  I  think  your  report  
suggested  2028.  Can  you  share  with  us  how  you’re  dealing  with  
those issues? 


what is he getting at?


https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-114hhrg94223/pdf/CHRG-114hhrg94223.pdf

Bridenstine a fan of Space X


https://bridenstine.house.gov/blog/?postid=758
	Around the world, free people and representative governments aligned.  The American spirit led.  On July 20, 1969, the free world won the space race when an American flag was planted on the moon.  From that day until December 14, 1972, twelve Americans walked on the moon resulting in a treasure trove of knowledge not only about the moon, but about our solar system, our galaxy, and the universe.  Even better, it was one small step toward a giant leap in winning the Cold War.

 	Ten years after the last Apollo Mission, Ronald Reagan introduced the Strategic Defense Initiative to defend the free world from nuclear ballistic missiles.  While professional thinkers and academics in the United States denounced it, called it destabilizing, and even suggested it was impossible to achieve, the Soviet Union took it very seriously, made every effort to eliminate it, and spent whatever it took to compete.  They eventually went bankrupt.  SDI, while not fully implemented, was a geopolitical success built on the credibility of Apollo.  As Ronald Reagan said, “We win.  They lose.”


does he actually think like that? or is that how he thinks Americans think?


	...From the discovery of water ice on the moon until this day, the American objective should have been a permanent outpost of rovers and machines at the poles with occasional manned missions for science and maintenance.  The purpose of such an outpost should have been to utilize the materials and energy of the moon to drive down the costs and increase the capabilities of cis-lunar space.  Let’s talk about why.


says goal should be moon base

 	...Let’s talk about China.   In 2007 China used a direct ascent anti-satellite missile to shoot down one of its own weather satellites creating thousands of pieces of orbital debris.  Since then, they have been testing such missiles all the way out to geostationary orbit.  Recently, the Chang’E 2 spacecraft orbited and mapped the moon.  It then travelled to the Sun-Earth L-2 point before travelling to a near-earth asteroid.  Such devices could be used for a kinetic intercept path from above GEO or other spoofing, dazzling, or jamming activities.  Attacks from above GEO would be very difficult if not impossible to detect.  In 2014, the Chinese hacked into the U.S. National Weather Service and compelled us to stop collecting space-based weather data for a period of three days.  That significant if you’re from Oklahoma.  They currently have two astronauts (taikonauts) on their domestically produced space station: the Tiangong-2.  The Taikonauts flew there on domestic Chinese rockets and capsules:  the Shenzhou Program.  They currently have rovers and machines on the moon, and they have developed unhackable, unjammable, unspoofable quantum communications.  It is clear the Chinese understand the geopolitical value of space operations.


wants to start space war with China?

	...The U.S Government understands that in the future, and even today, it will be a customer of routine space services, not a provider of routine space services.  One of those services could also someday be in situ resource utilization from the Moon to fuel and power missions to locations deeper into our solar system, such as Mars.


Moon as stepping stone to Mars

	This is only possible because of all the risk that the government has already retired for these capabilities.  Now, the U.S. government should play a part in developing the tools for lunar energy resource development, cis-lunar satellite servicing, and maintenance.  The U.S. government must work to retire risk, make the operations routine, and once again empower commercial companies.  This has already worked to an extent in low Earth orbit, and now we should apply this model to cis-lunar space. This is not only appropriate for economic development and to improve the human condition on Earth, but to provide for national security, which is now entirely dependent on space-based capabilities.  Every domain of warfare today depends on space.


sounds more or less same as Putin's Russian replacements for Roscosmos: militarize space, go to moon instead of mars

 	I was proud to work with Rep. Honda to get language into the House CJS appropriations bill this year directing NASA to work with commercial partners to develop small scale missions to the lunar surface.  I want to thank those of you within NASA who have already begun moving out on this Congressional directive.  I’m pleased that NASA announced on Nov. 1st an RFI for small lunar surface payloads to potentially fly on US commercial lunar cargo transportation vehicles.


Mars "one day," meanwhile "small scale" missions to Moon

no vision

	Once the cis-lunar market develops to service and maintain our traditional space-based military and commercial capabilities, other opportunities will naturally follow.  The surface of the moon is composed mainly of oxides of metals:  iron, magnesium, aluminum, silicon, titanium and others.  While these oxides can be used to produce oxygen for life support and metals for additive manufacturing in situ, they will not likely be exported to earth.  However, it is possible, if not likely, that highly valuable platinum group metals are much more available on the moon from astroblemes than they are on earth.  Such a discovery with cis-lunar transportation capabilities would fundamentally transform American commercial lunar development and could profoundly alter the economic and geopolitical balance of power on Earth.  This could explain the Chinese interest in the moon.  The question is: What are WE, the United States, doing to make sure the free world participates economically in such a discovery?  The U.S. government has a role to play here.


we have to get to Moon before China does!!!!


completely ignores idea of humanity working together to go to space, frames it as a competition for resources.


	This is our Sputnik moment.  America must forever be the preeminent spacefaring nation and the moon is a path to being so.
