https://web.archive.org/web/20170218124021/http://www.jamesoberg.com/russian.html


James Oberg's "Russian" page, since deleted.


------


https://web.archive.org/web/20160410141241/http://www.nbcnews.com/id/49217472/ns/technology_and_science-space/#.WbNqK7NXqV4
	HOUSTON  — A veteran Russian cosmonaut’s cynical and bitter words about the dire state of the Russian space industry seemed to spell his own career’s abrupt end after his return to Earth from the International Space Station. But within a week, his unprecedented public criticism was echoed and elaborated on by Russia's top space officials. 

	Perhaps telling the truth is catching on in Moscow, but perhaps it's already almost too late to save the Russian space industry. Over the past two years, program leadership has appeared powerless to stop a series of embarrassing failures in spacecraft launchings and flight operations that have cast the future of the entire program in doubt.


Is James Oberg happy about this?


	...Rogozin developed and published a get-well strategy in March, and by all accounts it was realistic and reasonable. The strategy admitted that the visible setbacks were really consequences of deeper problems. But outside observers worried that it just wasn't possible to fix the problems without resources that the government was reluctant to commit.

	Worse, the main problem Rogozin found was actually external to the Russian space industry. He realized that the Russian government didn’t really have any idea what to do with the industrial base left over from Soviet times. He found that Russia wanted to continue human spaceflight with the International Space Station, and also "was planning to fly everywhere" without really understanding why. “There is no architecture of values, no clear understanding of concept,” he complained.

	“There is only one main task today,” Rogozin told reporters this month. "Russia must determine its goals in space, what are we seeking?"

	To be "provocative," he suggested a manned moon base as a guide to focusing the program.


Rogozin wants to go to Moon instead of Mars too?


	...Otherwise, he observed, there was no way to evaluate which components of the program were really even needed, and which were superfluous. "The industry is excessively large," he pointed out. "In our country, there are several large concerns that simultaneously produce similar products: control systems, launch systems, space satellites, engines. Inside the country, we cannot generate sufficient demand for the industry ourselves, it is working at about half of its capacity, and we also cannot control quality, with such a wide range of products it is impossible to control everything.

	"The issue has arisen that indeed a very deep reform is necessary," he concluded. But rather than a short-term approach to "quality control" for the kludge of redundant factories and institutes, he stressed that the first step on a get-well strategy was to know where you wanted the program to go. 


Rogozin calls for downsizing?


	...Cosmonaut Padalka’s complaints, in this context, look a lot less heretical. They seem well within the range of reformist suggestions, as being implemented by Dmitri Rogozin and Vladimir Popovkin. 


Oberg like Popovkin?

Popovkin is the guy who alleged Western sabotage


	...Even in Russia, some observers believe that the "good old days" will never come again in space. Konstantin Bogdanov, aerospace correspondent for the newspaper Izvestia, wrote a thoughtful essay on the occasion of the celebrations of the 50th anniversary of Yuri Gagarin’s spaceflight in April 2011. He called his essay “Fallen Giant: The Soviet Space Industry” and suggested it would never be able to revive the past glories that were nostalgically celebrated over Gagarin:

	"Its capacity for working miracles disappeared in the 1990s when the colossal monolith crumbled along with the system that had spawned it, leaving a sea of bitterness and grudges in its wake, as well as nostalgia for a lost paradise for engineers and technicians. The fall of the aerospace industry was cruelly sobering after several decades of intoxication with the limitless possibilities afforded under the Soviet space program.


	...Like a hothouse orchid, brittle in its demand for precise support conditions, the Russian space program may have bloomed spectacularly when the conditions were right, and then wilted irremediably as the conditions vanished forever.

	Time will tell if the Russian space program can retain the talent and the governmental support to surmount this chosen new challenge, the greatest in 50 years. Dedication and history they clearly have in abundance, along with an inspirational motto that got them through the dark days of the privations after the Soviet collapse: "The difficulties ahead of us are less than those we have already overcome," workers told each other then. Today, will that be enough?


Oberg sounds happy at claims Russian space program is dead


------

2010, James Oberg asks: how risky is it to rely on Russian spaceflight?


http://www.nbcnews.com/id/37713521/ns/technology_and_science-space/
	Terrorism: The launch site at Baikonur takes the terrorist threat (from Chechens or other separatists) seriously enough to conduct annual anti-terrorist drills with special military units.  The special forces were actually scarier than the thought of a true terrorist attack, since their tactic of choice seemed to be to charge in and kill everyone in sight. Security for the now-demilitarized base has been turned over to civilian police and contractors, imported from Moscow.

	While Islamic extremist groups and Chechen settlements are found throughout Kazakhstan, a closer-to-home potential target could be space facilities in Moscow, often located alongside busy public streets. Attacks there — or even threats of attacks — could seriously upset flight operations.


------


http://www.nbcnews.com/id/5727486/#040819a
	NBC News space analyst James Oberg, who has written extensively on UFO tales, weighed in with some sorely needed historical perspective:

	"In the bad old days of the Cold War, military establishments in the Soviet Union, the United States and elsewhere soon realized that many of their secret aerial operations could be camouflaged by public misperceptions and myths about flying saucers. ... And now, decades after the motivations for the misdirection have faded, and relevant files, memoirs and interviews have come out, it's almost touching that the last remaining holdouts of believers in the bogus stories are the UFO buffs.

	"They proclaim their dedication to dispelling 'government cover-ups' — but in cosmic irony, they are among the last defenders of the convenient Cold War cover stories that protected spy balloons, super jets, missiles, space warheads, equipment malfunctions and accidents, crashed satellites and so many other military aerospace activities whose owners wanted to avoid public awareness.

	"If so many dedicated people hadn't wasted so much of their lives on the wild space-goose chases, it might even be funny."


Oberg has a way of sounding creepy.

Does he do it on purpose?


------


https://www.rt.com/news/nasa-astronauts-accused-of-alcohol-abuse/
	A panel set up to investigate NASA is reporting that astronauts from the American Aeronautical Agency were cleared to fly while drunk on at least two occasions. 

	...Also in an exclusive interview with Russia Today, NASA expert James Oberg said the mass media are misinterpreting the story.

	“I know people are still very interested in the particular drinking cases. In my view, they keep missing the point of the scandal, of the problem itself. In terms of the people involved, if they have broken regulations, this goes beyond individual medical privacy. It goes to the point of flight safety – and that sort of thing is not private. The fact that the flight surgeon was powerless to enforce regulations is more important. In the Soviet programme we saw cases when individuals were removed from flight crews weeks, days, even only a few days before launch for medical reasons. So the doctors have had a lot more authority in the Soviet programme than apparently they have in NASA. This is an interesting question, and I’m going to pay a lot of attention to it,” said James Oberg.


same thing he keeps doing--deny things in a way that makes them seem true


------


https://www.rt.com/news/russia-celebrates-cosmonauts/
	“The first time Gagarin’s name was heard in the U.S. and the rest of the world – and the Soviet Union – was during the flight, at the height of the space race. And this sense of competition made many people in the West disappointed that this victory belonged to the Soviet Union,” said James Oberg, U.S. space journalist and historian.


------


http://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/sdut-first-man-in-space-a-50-year-old-feat-remembered-2011apr09-story.html
	 Gagarin's legacy, meanwhile, has been dogged by conspiracy theories. Rumors still abound of botched and fatal space missions, the result of pervasive secrecy that surrounded the Soviet space program. "The degree of secrecy created shadows in which monsters could lurk," said Oberg, the NASA veteran.

	Some early flights used mannequins which might have been mistaken for real people. But at least one death was real: cosmonaut Valentin Bondarenko died in a pressure chamber fire during ground training less than a month before Gagarin's flight. His death became known only after Mikhail Gorbachev launched his reforms in the 1980s.

	And then there was Gagarin's own death on March 27, 1968. It still drives conspiracy theories that the KGB wanted him dead because he supposedly opposed the Soviet regime. 


wtf


have they been sabotaging their space program before?


https://www.space.com/21594-yuri-gagarin-death-cause-revealed.html
	Upon seeing the released report, Leonov also realized that his own account of that day had been recorded incorrectly. The report suggested that he heard the loud booms 15 to 20 seconds apart, when it was actually two seconds.

	"That suggested that the two jets must have been no less than 50 kilometers apart." Leonov said.


------

https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/DOC_0005517536.pdf


What is this? Who is "D. Oberg?"


------

https://dorkmission.blogspot.com/2011/12/review-of-ken-johnston-on-coast-to.html
	This time he added a counter-attack on James Oberg (joint founder of this blog) 


Oberg a co-founding of dorkmission blog


------


https://www.universetoday.com/90808/russians-race-against-time-to-save-ambitious-phobos-grunt-mars-probe-from-earthly-demise/
	Russians Race against Time to Save Ambitious Phobos-Grunt Mars Probe from Earthly Demise

	10 Nov , 2011

	...“I give them a good chance — better than even — of recovering the mission and making the Mars insertion burn in a day or two, said James Oberg, a renowned expert on Russian and US spaceflight in commentary to Universe Today.

	But Oberg also told me that having such problems so early in the mission was not a good sign. It all depends on whether the root cause is related to a simple software patch or serious hardware difficulties.

	...“But it’s an old old superstition that when leaving your house for a long voyage, if you trip on the door step, you better just lay down your suitcases and go back inside,” Oberg said.

	“Seriously, on a mission so complex and innovative as this one is, with so much stuff that has to be done RIGHT the first time they’ve ever tried it, having this kind of error — even if it’s only a coding mishap — right at the start, is NOT a good omen about the quality of work on preparing the later steps,” Oberg warned.


Oberg saying ominous things around start of phobos-grunt failures


http://articles.latimes.com/2011/nov/10/world/la-fg-russia-mars-probe-20111110
	Fear raised that Russia's Phobos-Ground spacecraft will crash

	November 10, 2011

	...If they fail, experts worry that tons of toxic fuel carried by Phobos-Ground could turn it into one of the most dangerous spacecraft to fall from orbit.

	"About 7 tons of nitrogen tetroxide and hydrazine, which could freeze before ultimately entering, will make it the most toxic falling satellite ever," James Oberg, a NASA veteran who now works as a space consultant, said in an email to the Associated Press. "What was billed as the heaviest interplanetary probe ever may become one of the heaviest space derelicts to ever fall back to Earth out of control."

	But Oberg told the AP that it was still possible to regain control of the probe, saying, "Nothing irreversibly bad has happened."


Oberg raises fear of toxic craft crashing, but says "nothing irreversibly bad has happened"


------


http://forum.nasaspaceflight.com/index.php?PHPSESSID=s23ej86dm87uv8mk9i483bccj0&topic=27593.msg858512#msg858512


Oberg has an account on "nasaspaceflight.com"--anything interesting there?
