https://www.reddit.com/r/space/comments/5601ls/why_are_we_trying_to_colonize_mars_rather_than/


harder to colonize Moon than mars?


------


https://arstechnica.com/science/2016/12/time-to-choose-between-the-moon-and-mars-or-nasa-isnt-going-anywhere/
	A few days later, and a few miles down the perpetually congested NASA Parkway that skirts the southern flank of Johnson Space Center, I met another eminent scientist for lunch. An academic through and through, Paul Spudis lacks the adventurer-astronaut credentials of Grunsfeld, but he has a formidable scientific mind. And Spudis, inspired to specialize in lunar geology while watching the Apollo 15 astronauts explore the lunar surface, is also a formidable advocate for human exploration—of the Moon.

	Over a hamburger and dark beer at Boondoggles Pub, Spudis spoke about why he believes humans must return to the Moon before going deeper into the Solar System. As Spudis has outlined in a new book, The Value of the Moon, the Moon is nearby, scientifically interesting, and useful. Moreover, he argues, it is precisely because NASA has chased after ephemeral Mars dreams for the better part of the last half century that humans have remained confined to low-Earth orbit since the end of Apollo.

	Both men agree on one point: with NASA’s limited funds, even before possible cuts under a Trump administration, the space agency can’t do both. Sending astronauts to the Moon and establishing a colony would push human exploration of Mars into the second half of this century. Alternatively, making a direct push toward Mars would preclude any meaningful human exploration of the Moon.


------


https://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/2004-01-14-oberg_x.htm
	Think outside moon-Mars box: Maybe visit asteroid?
	By James Oberg

	The moon race of the 1960s was fueled by national anxiety about what the world would become if the Soviet Union grabbed a permanent lead in space exploration. So President Kennedy set a vision for the USA to reach the moon first.

	...Instead of sending astronauts back to the moon or off to Mars, the United States needs a space strategy that addresses today's national anxieties — without breaking the bank.


wtf is this?


not "national anxieties," it's survival. How would a supposed NASA guy not see that?


https://www.newscientist.com/article/dn4551-bush-to-announce-manned-mission-to-mars/
	A human presence on the Moon, says space expert James Oberg, would allow engineers to iron out the technical and medical challenges of a manned Mars mission, which require at least a year of space travel.


------

http://www.seattlepi.com/local/science/article/ESA-director-outlines-plans-for-a-moon-village-6868723.php

head of ESA says go to moon first before mars


------

https://www.wired.com/story/spacexs-mars-plans-hit-a-pothole-up-next-the-moon/
	SpaceX is rebooting its colonization plan, and may pivot to focus on a moon base that would aid that effort.


SpaceX giving up on Mars recently?


------

http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1197775/Buzz-Aldrin-Why-leave-Moon-settle-Mars-instead.html


Aldrin wants to go to Mars

------

http://www.popularmechanics.com/space/moon-mars/a21330/nasa-wants-martian-resources-for-martian-colony/
	We continue to learn that Mars is rich with resources that could be vital to supporting astronauts on the Red Planet for any extended period of time. Instead of launching resources such as water and materials to build a habitat to Mars, it could potentially be much more cost effective to send automated robots to harvest resources from the Martian surface and atmosphere in preparation for the arrival of humans.

	This colonization strategy is the subject of an April 2016 NASA scientific and technical information (STI) paper titled "Frontier In-Situ Resource Utilization for Enabling Sustained Human Presence on Mars," which argues that the information we have gleaned from rovers and orbiters suggests that there is an abundance of useful resources already on Mars. What's more, we are on the cusp of developing the technology that would be required to extract resources on Mars with robotic systems so they would be immediately available to arriving astronauts.


http://www.nss.org/settlement/mars/zubrin-colonize.html


saying same thing--mars has resources for self-sustaining colony


------

https://forum.nasaspaceflight.com/index.php?topic=39403.20
	It's like going to Sahara in order to prepare for an expedition in Antarctica. The greatest benefit is the organizational experience of having done any kind of exploration mission. But much of the equipment and operations must be different. The Alaskan Husky and the skis are not so useful in Sahara. And the differences between the Moon and Mars are greater than differences between any regions on Earth.


https://arstechnica.com/science/2016/12/time-to-choose-between-the-moon-and-mars-or-nasa-isnt-going-anywhere/
	The space agency’s next major exploration program could last the better part of half a century, too. So we ought to choose wisely. The Moon is closer and offers potential utility as a refueling station in space. Mars harbors more intrigue in the search for life and represents the Solar System’s best bet for a second home. But we’re going nowhere without a final choice—followed by investment and commitment. Absent this from the Trump administration and Congress, NASA will continue to find itself adrift.



------

Russian propaganda seems to be mostly down on a mars mission?


http://www.naturalnews.com/044974_NASA_mars_space_colonization.html


https://www.infowars.com/the-moon-vs-mars-why-nasa-should-set-its-sights-on-a-manned-lunar-mission-next/


https://www.lewrockwell.com/2017/08/laurence-m-vance/mission-to-mars/



http://beforeitsnews.com/conspiracy-theories/2017/05/nasa-curiosity-finds-nazi-helmet-on-mars-2481308.html

lol


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/mars-rover-finds-organic-compounds-not-life/2012/12/03/5feef90e-3d6a-11e2-ae43-cf491b837f7b_story.html
	December 3, 2012

 	Mars rover Curiosity finds organic compounds, but no signs of life 

	By Brian Vastag

	...Such compounds, made of carbon and chlorine, are of the type that, in some cases, indicate microbes in the soil.

	But such compounds also could be contamination from the rover itself — or they may have rained onto the surface inside meteorites, said Paul Mahaffy, a mission scientist from NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt.

	“It’s unclear if the carbon is Martian or terrestrial,” Mahaffy said.

	Further tests will help clarify the source of the chemicals, but mission scientists cautioned that the rover is not equipped to find life itself, only the conditions that may be ripe for life.


isn't this finding a sign of life? seems like a misleading title


	...Jim Bell, president of the Planetary Society, who is not involved in the mission, said searching for life on another planet is difficult. “It’s hard to find [microbial] life here on Earth, which is teeming with it. You’ve got to take samples back to high-tech labs.” 


which they could have done if they got back the sample from phobos-grunt...

	...The minor announcement from the Mars Science Laboratory team comes as a letdown after weeks of speculation that the rover had made an “earthshaking” discovery, as reported by NPR last month.

	That radio story, Grotzinger said, sprang from a misunderstanding.

	A reporter happened to be sitting with him as the rover’s most sophisticated instrument, called the SAM, beamed back data showing it was working as designed. The science team started “hootin’ and hollerin’,” Grotzinger said. 

	His lesson: Be careful what you say.


a bit of a downer



https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/incoming-space-junk-failed-russian-mars-probe-expected-to-crash-this-weekend/2012/01/13/gIQAOM7ewP_story.html
	Incoming space junk: Failed Russian Mars probe expected to crash this weekend 

	By Brian Vastag January 13, 2012

	What went up is going to come down — and soon.

	A failed Russian Mars probe stranded above Earth since November will plunge to its doom this weekend, likely on Sunday.


	...The Phobos-Grunt mission was supposed to be a technological triumph for Russia. The $163 million craft was to travel to one of the moons of Mars, collect a soil sample (“Grunt” is Russian for “ground”) and return the sample to Earth in a hardened capsule. 

	Such a return of a sample from Mars or its moons has never been attempted. It would have been a watershed moment for Russia.

	Instead, Phobos-Grunt has become a searing embarrassment. The high-profile blunder has spurred Russian space officials to offer increasingly bizarre theories to explain the problem. In an interview published in the Russian newspaper Izvestia on Tuesday, the director of the Russian space agency, Vladimir Popovkin, implied that an anti-satellite weapon may have damaged Phobos-Grunt.

	“We don’t want to accuse anybody, but there are very powerful devices that can influence spacecraft now,” Popovkin said. “The possibility they were used cannot be ruled out.”

	Other Russian space experts said the cause of the failure was likely much more Earth-bound.

	“My strong belief is there are systemic problems in the industry which build spacecraft,” said Anatoly Zak, a Russian space historian and journalist who publishes the Web site RussianSpaceWeb.com. “Before the launch, I said the chances of mission success were nearly zero.”


"Space Junk"


https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/45-years-after-americas-first-space-tragedy-lessons-linger/2012/01/27/gIQAJ9OwVQ_story.html
	45 years after America’s first space tragedy, lessons linger

	By Brian Vastag January 27, 2012


------


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-russia-space-moon/russias-deputy-pm-says-country-must-shoot-for-moon-base-idUSBRE88A0KH20120911
	“There is a lot of competition among countries in the space sector and so we must have a big super goal that could pull forward science and industry; that would enable the country to escape from the morass of problems, which have kept us captive for the past 20 years,” Rogozin told the Vesti FM radio station.

	“Why not try to build a big station on the Moon that would be a base for future ‘leaps’ of science?”.

	Russia’s renewed focus on the Moon may reflect a scaling back of ambition following a string of space failures and comes as other countries - notably China - are eyeing the Moon with greater ambition. Beijing plans to land its first probe there next year even though it still has a long way to go to catch up with space superpowers Russia and the United States. 

	...Last year, a Russian mission failed to return samples from the Martian moon Phobos, and last month the failure of a Proton rocket caused the multi million-dollar loss of Indonesia’s Telkom-3 and Russia’s Express-MD2 satellites.

	“We are losing our authority and billions of roubles,” Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev told officials at a government meeting last month. 

	...“It’s too far and too expensive to Mars,” space industry expert Igor Lissov told the state RIA news agency. “We must start with the moon. We must give ourselves realistic goals.” 


http://spacenews.com/space-agency-heads-see-the-moon-on-the-path-to-mars/
	In a press conference here April 4, Igor Komarov, director general of the Russian state space corporation Roscosmos, said he has talked with ESA about participating in any Moon Village effort.

	“We should go to the moon,” he said, in part to study issues associated with Mars missions. “It’s better to solve all these problems on the moon before going to Mars.”


https://sputniknews.com/voiceofrussia/news/2014_04_11/Russia-plans-to-get-a-foothold-in-the-Moon-Dmitriy-Rogozin-5452/
	Russia plans to organize a permanent base on the moon rather than leave it after several successful missions, the Russian deputy defense minister in charge of defense and space industries said. "The moon is not an intermediate point in the [space] race, it is a separate, even a self-contained goal. It would hardly be rational to make some ten or twenty flights to the moon, and then wind it all up and fly to the Mars or some asteroids. 

	This process has the beginning, but has no end: we are going to come to the moon forever," Dmitry Rogozin said in an article to be published by the government daily Rossiiskaya Gazeta on Friday. A mission to the Moon has become one of Russia's top space priorities.


------

https://www.theverge.com/2016/5/18/11706010/congress-questions-nasa-strategy-to-go-to-mars
	The chief concern was cost, since the entire mission could require over a trillion dollars. Much of the money will be spent to develop new technologies — like a system to protect astronauts from space radiation — that are needed to ensure deep-space travel is even possible. Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA) and others said that the money might be better spent for other space projects, like cleaning up the space debris surrounding Earth, and creating a system to protect our planet in case of a potential asteroid impact. "There are a lot of things we could be doing in space," Rohrabacher said. "I hope that we make sure that we don’t waste dollars on things that we don’t accomplish anything with."

	...Rep. Jim Bridenstine (R-OK) talked about the 2014 National Research Council report, which was mandated by Congress and concluded that NASA's current strategy won't accomplish sending humans to Mars. Bridenstine questioned whether NASA's strategy improved at all. "We need to make sure that Congress is aware and understands what the objective here is and ultimately the direction we’re going to go," Bridenstine said, "because I don’t want to get another report in 10 years that says, under no circumstances will we ever get to Mars and between now and 10 years from now we will have made all these investments believing one thing and being told later something else."

------

https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-113hhrg81194/pdf/CHRG-113hhrg81194.pdf
	Mr. ROHRABACHER. Holy cow. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair-man. 

	I have been—I would just like to ask a fundamental question here because we have been talking about mission to Mars, okay, mission to Mars and different approaches to mission to Mars and what—I would like to ask the panel whether or not they think a mission to Mars is worth the cost or not. I mean if we do a mission to Mars—and correct me if I am wrong—we will have to defund most of the—I mean if we are going to do it now, start now and go directly into a mission to Mars, we are going to have to defund, you know, asteroid detection and then deflection. I mean we might as well forget that. I mean that is expensive. Debris cleanup which unless we don’t—unless we clean up the debris, of course, we may end up having our own use of near space being cut off from the fu-ture satellites because debris is knocking our satellites out of the air, no more GPS communication satellites, et cetera. Or how about space astronomy, which we know there is some very important projects moving forward with various telescopes that could give us a really in-depth view of the universe.

	You know, reading the—I mean unless we think that the tooth fairy is going to leave all the money under the pillow in order to accomplish a mission to Mars, is it really worthwhile, the vast ex-pense and the canceling of programs like this in order for us to take off and start heading on a Mars mission now? I will just go right down the line. That is fine. 


------


https://bridenstine.house.gov/blog/?postid=758
	Around the world, free people and representative governments aligned.  The American spirit led.  On July 20, 1969, the free world won the space race when an American flag was planted on the moon.  From that day until December 14, 1972, twelve Americans walked on the moon resulting in a treasure trove of knowledge not only about the moon, but about our solar system, our galaxy, and the universe.  Even better, it was one small step toward a giant leap in winning the Cold War.

 	Ten years after the last Apollo Mission, Ronald Reagan introduced the Strategic Defense Initiative to defend the free world from nuclear ballistic missiles.  While professional thinkers and academics in the United States denounced it, called it destabilizing, and even suggested it was impossible to achieve, the Soviet Union took it very seriously, made every effort to eliminate it, and spent whatever it took to compete.  They eventually went bankrupt.  SDI, while not fully implemented, was a geopolitical success built on the credibility of Apollo.  As Ronald Reagan said, “We win.  They lose.”


does he actually think like that? or is that how he thinks Americans think?


	...From the discovery of water ice on the moon until this day, the American objective should have been a permanent outpost of rovers and machines at the poles with occasional manned missions for science and maintenance.  The purpose of such an outpost should have been to utilize the materials and energy of the moon to drive down the costs and increase the capabilities of cis-lunar space.  Let’s talk about why.


says goal should be moon base

 	...Let’s talk about China.   In 2007 China used a direct ascent anti-satellite missile to shoot down one of its own weather satellites creating thousands of pieces of orbital debris.  Since then, they have been testing such missiles all the way out to geostationary orbit.  Recently, the Chang’E 2 spacecraft orbited and mapped the moon.  It then travelled to the Sun-Earth L-2 point before travelling to a near-earth asteroid.  Such devices could be used for a kinetic intercept path from above GEO or other spoofing, dazzling, or jamming activities.  Attacks from above GEO would be very difficult if not impossible to detect.  In 2014, the Chinese hacked into the U.S. National Weather Service and compelled us to stop collecting space-based weather data for a period of three days.  That significant if you’re from Oklahoma.  They currently have two astronauts (taikonauts) on their domestically produced space station: the Tiangong-2.  The Taikonauts flew there on domestic Chinese rockets and capsules:  the Shenzhou Program.  They currently have rovers and machines on the moon, and they have developed unhackable, unjammable, unspoofable quantum communications.  It is clear the Chinese understand the geopolitical value of space operations.


wants to start space war with China?

	...The U.S Government understands that in the future, and even today, it will be a customer of routine space services, not a provider of routine space services.  One of those services could also someday be in situ resource utilization from the Moon to fuel and power missions to locations deeper into our solar system, such as Mars.


Moon as stepping stone to Mars

	This is only possible because of all the risk that the government has already retired for these capabilities.  Now, the U.S. government should play a part in developing the tools for lunar energy resource development, cis-lunar satellite servicing, and maintenance.  The U.S. government must work to retire risk, make the operations routine, and once again empower commercial companies.  This has already worked to an extent in low Earth orbit, and now we should apply this model to cis-lunar space. This is not only appropriate for economic development and to improve the human condition on Earth, but to provide for national security, which is now entirely dependent on space-based capabilities.  Every domain of warfare today depends on space.


sounds more or less same as Putin's Russian replacements for Roscosmos: militarize space, go to moon instead of mars

 	I was proud to work with Rep. Honda to get language into the House CJS appropriations bill this year directing NASA to work with commercial partners to develop small scale missions to the lunar surface.  I want to thank those of you within NASA who have already begun moving out on this Congressional directive.  I’m pleased that NASA announced on Nov. 1st an RFI for small lunar surface payloads to potentially fly on US commercial lunar cargo transportation vehicles.


Mars "one day," meanwhile "small scale" missions to Moon

no vision

	Once the cis-lunar market develops to service and maintain our traditional space-based military and commercial capabilities, other opportunities will naturally follow.  The surface of the moon is composed mainly of oxides of metals:  iron, magnesium, aluminum, silicon, titanium and others.  While these oxides can be used to produce oxygen for life support and metals for additive manufacturing in situ, they will not likely be exported to earth.  However, it is possible, if not likely, that highly valuable platinum group metals are much more available on the moon from astroblemes than they are on earth.  Such a discovery with cis-lunar transportation capabilities would fundamentally transform American commercial lunar development and could profoundly alter the economic and geopolitical balance of power on Earth.  This could explain the Chinese interest in the moon.  The question is: What are WE, the United States, doing to make sure the free world participates economically in such a discovery?  The U.S. government has a role to play here.


we have to get to Moon before China does!!!!


completely ignores idea of humanity working together to go to space, frames it as a competition for resources.


	This is our Sputnik moment.  America must forever be the preeminent spacefaring nation and the moon is a path to being so.


------


https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/6z9c33/eli5_why_is_building_a_mars_colony_the_next_big/

reddit on why mars mission

Robert Zubrin has a good answer
