https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Committee_Against_Mars_Sample_Return
	The International Committee Against Mars Sample Return, or ICAMSR, is an advocacy group of scientists who campaign against Mars sample return. The Committee was founded in the year 2000.[1] They have been quoted in news stories[2] and books[3] discussing this type of mission. The Committee's name reflects only partially on their actual viewpoint;[3] the ICAMSR charter states their main goal is that samples should be certified safe in situ or in space first, before they are returned to Earth:[3]

		Having planetary/cometary samples certified as "biosphere safe" in space or in-situ before they are transferred to the Earth’s surface is our main goal and intention.[4]

	The director of ICAMSR is Barry DiGregorio; he has written on the topic of return samples safety on various websites[5][6] and magazines.[7] Notable ICAMSR advisors include Gilbert Levin who was responsible for one of the Viking spacecraft biological experiments, and Chandra Wickramasinghe.


who the fuck are these guys


DiGregorio is the one who criticized LIFE program on Phobos-Grunt for maybe contaminating Mars, Levin is the guy who said the Viking experiment on Mars proved there was life there (which was mentioned by Warmflash).


don't they have protocols for this anyway

handling crazy deadly viruses all the time

Phil and Elizabeth Jennings storing them in their freezer


https://www.newscientist.com/article/mg20827924-300-dont-send-bugs-to-mars/


here's DiGregorio's op-ed


------


http://www.popularmechanics.com/space/rockets/a10547/another-disaster-for-russias-space-workhorse-16800081/
	by Anatoly Zak

	...To make matters worse, the latest Proton failure happened against a tense diplomatic backdrop and a worsening political climate for the Russian commercial efforts in space. The threat of US sanctions in response to the Russian annexation of Crimea earlier this year left Proton vulnerable on the highly competitive international launch market. Since most commercial communications satellites include parts built in the United States, their operators have to obtain export licenses before the delivery of their payloads to the Proton's launch site in Kazakhstan. As new American companies, like SpaceX, are entering the crowded market, their allies in the US Congress might have an extra incentive to put a hurdle in front of a powerful Russian competitor.


is this something they wanted?

	So far, the International Launch Service, a Virginia-based company that markets Proton to commercial clients outside Russia, said that it had been unaffected by anti-Russian sanctions. However a mere threat of sanctions could be enough to scare off at least some of Proton's future passengers.


or some kind of threat?


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/as-asteroid-whizzes-by-surprise-meteor-makes-an-impact-over-russia/2013/02/15/b3a417d0-77a5-11e2-aa12-e6cf1d31106b_story.html
	As asteroid whizzes by, surprise meteor makes an impact over Russia 

	By Brian Vastag, Will Englund and Joel Achenbach February 15, 2013


why are Vastag and Achenbach writing this?

	...Chelyabinsk, a city of 1.1 million people, has a high concentration of defense industries, and arsenals in its vicinity have occasionally exploded, but the meteor’s arrival appears not to have set off any. The roof of a zinc factory, however, came crashing down, triggering a spike in global zinc prices.


weird to point out kindof


	...Amateur footage showed at least two orange flashes as the meteor streaked over apartment buildings. A series of booms trailed the space rock. As it exploded, the meteor briefly blazed brighter than the sun.

	And no one saw it coming.

	...“An asteroid such as this is virtually impossible to see ahead of time,” said Paul Chodas of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif.


seem to emphasize the vulnerability of people to these kinds of things in their writings

	...The twin asteroid encounters on Friday — one benign, the other malign — laid bare both the uncertain reality of life in the cosmos — you never know when a space rock might come crashing down — and our planet’s lack of defense against such threats.


a bit over the top actually...

	...Two congressmen seized the moment to promise hearings on the planet’s space-threat readiness. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, said in a statement that developing technology to track asteroids “is critical to our future,” while Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.) called asteroid impacts the “only true preventable natural disaster.” Even if we find one that will hit us, he said, “we might not be able to deflect it.”


interesting... is this the idea here? would want space program to focus on astroids instead of Mars mission?


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/mars-rover-finds-organic-compounds-not-life/2012/12/03/5feef90e-3d6a-11e2-ae43-cf491b837f7b_story.html
	December 3, 2012

 	Mars rover Curiosity finds organic compounds, but no signs of life 

	By Brian Vastag

	...Such compounds, made of carbon and chlorine, are of the type that, in some cases, indicate microbes in the soil.

	But such compounds also could be contamination from the rover itself — or they may have rained onto the surface inside meteorites, said Paul Mahaffy, a mission scientist from NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt.

	“It’s unclear if the carbon is Martian or terrestrial,” Mahaffy said.

	Further tests will help clarify the source of the chemicals, but mission scientists cautioned that the rover is not equipped to find life itself, only the conditions that may be ripe for life.


isn't this finding a sign of life? seems like a misleading title


	...Jim Bell, president of the Planetary Society, who is not involved in the mission, said searching for life on another planet is difficult. “It’s hard to find [microbial] life here on Earth, which is teeming with it. You’ve got to take samples back to high-tech labs.” 


which they could have done if they got back the sample from phobos-grunt...

	...The minor announcement from the Mars Science Laboratory team comes as a letdown after weeks of speculation that the rover had made an “earthshaking” discovery, as reported by NPR last month.

	That radio story, Grotzinger said, sprang from a misunderstanding.

	A reporter happened to be sitting with him as the rover’s most sophisticated instrument, called the SAM, beamed back data showing it was working as designed. The science team started “hootin’ and hollerin’,” Grotzinger said. 

	His lesson: Be careful what you say.


a bit of a downer


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/warmer-still-extreme-climate-predictions-appear-most-accurate-study-says/2012/11/08/ebd075c6-29c7-11e2-96b6-8e6a7524553f_story.html
	Warmer still: Extreme climate predictions appear most accurate, report says 

	By Brian Vastag November 8, 2012

	Climate scientists agree the Earth will be hotter by the end of the century, but their simulations don’t agree on how much. Now a study suggests the gloomier predictions may be closer to the mark.

	“Warming is likely to be on the high side of the projections,” said John Fasullo of the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo., a co-author of the report, which was based on satellite measurements of the atmosphere.

	That means the world could be in for a devastating increase of about eight degrees Fahrenheit by 2100, resulting in drastically higher seas, disappearing coastlines and more severe droughts, floods and other destructive weather.

	Such an increase would substantially overshoot what the world’s leaders have identified as the threshold for triggering catastrophic consequences. In 2009, heads of state agreed to try to limit warming to 3.6 degrees, and many countries want a tighter limit.


Is Vastag happy about this?


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/space-scientist-at-nasa-helped-get-the-us-back-on-the-road-to-mars/2011/12/21/gIQAVJgx7R_story.html
	Space scientist at NASA helped get the U.S. back on the road to Mars 

	Mars is hard. Getting there is hard, landing there is hard — and negotiating the corridors of power in Washington to fund a long-term exploration program is even harder. 

	In 1999, NASA lost two Mars-bound spacecraft; one due to a math error, the other because the spacecraft had not been properly tested. With the Mars program in tatters, Dan Golding, the agency’s administrator at the time, summoned a technical wizard and longtime space scientist, Scott Hubbard, to save it.


more unusual losses?


 	...Now retired from NASA, Hubbard is working as a professor at Stanford University. With budget pressure squeezing the agency’s Mars plans once again — after an orbiter named Maven launches in 2013, no more missions are in the works — space fans who read “Exploring Mars” might just launch their own campaign: Maybe they can bring the first Mars czar back for a second tour of duty. 


who is this Hubbard guy?


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/presidents-next-budget-to-cut-mars-solar-system-exploration/2012/02/08/gIQAvrm3zQ_story.html
	President’s next budget to cut Mars, solar system exploration 

	By Brian Vastag February 8, 2012


	...The budget coming Monday from the Obama administration will send the NASA division that launches rovers to Mars and probes to Jupiter crashing back to Earth.

	Scientists briefed on the proposed budget said that the president’s plan drops funding for planetary science at NASA from $1.5 billion this year to $1.2 billion next year, with further cuts continuing through 2017.

	It would eat at NASA’s Mars exploration program, which, after two high-profile failures in 1999, has successfully sent three probes into Martian orbit and landed three more on the planet’s surface.

	“We’re doing all this great science and taking the public along with us,” said Jim Bell, an Arizona State University scientist and president of the Planetary Society who works on NASA’s Mars rover Opportunity. “Pulling the rug out from under it is going to be really devastating.” 


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/nasa-more-space-station-delays-as-russian-vehicle-fails-ground-test/2012/02/02/gIQATdtFlQ_story.html
 	NASA: More space station delays as Russian vehicle fails ground test 

	By Brian Vastag February 2, 2012


	...But the failure does add to a string of problems for the Russian space industry. In August, an unmanned space station re-supply vessel crashed five minutes after launch. And in November, a robotic Russian spacecraft bound for a moon of Mars failed to depart Earth’s orbit. After circling the planet for two months, the $165 million Phobos-Grunt probe fell to Earth on Jan. 15.

	The investigation into the August rocket crash postponed for two months the launch of Burbank and two cosmonauts, leaving the football-field-sized outpost with half a crew — three instead of six — and raising the possibility that NASA and its international partners might have to abandon the nearly $100 billion outpost. 


do they want the ISS abandoned?


	...One high-profile company racing to fly astronauts to the station, Hawthorne, Calif.-based SpaceX, is suffering delays of its own. The company was scheduled to launch a test — without a crew — of its Dragon capsule from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station on Feb. 7. But software and hardware issues will probably delay the launch until early April, Suffredini said, “assuming no new surprises.” 


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/incoming-space-junk-failed-russian-mars-probe-expected-to-crash-this-weekend/2012/01/13/gIQAOM7ewP_story.html
	Incoming space junk: Failed Russian Mars probe expected to crash this weekend 

	By Brian Vastag January 13, 2012

	What went up is going to come down — and soon.

	A failed Russian Mars probe stranded above Earth since November will plunge to its doom this weekend, likely on Sunday.


	...The Phobos-Grunt mission was supposed to be a technological triumph for Russia. The $163 million craft was to travel to one of the moons of Mars, collect a soil sample (“Grunt” is Russian for “ground”) and return the sample to Earth in a hardened capsule. 

	Such a return of a sample from Mars or its moons has never been attempted. It would have been a watershed moment for Russia.

	Instead, Phobos-Grunt has become a searing embarrassment. The high-profile blunder has spurred Russian space officials to offer increasingly bizarre theories to explain the problem. In an interview published in the Russian newspaper Izvestia on Tuesday, the director of the Russian space agency, Vladimir Popovkin, implied that an anti-satellite weapon may have damaged Phobos-Grunt.

	“We don’t want to accuse anybody, but there are very powerful devices that can influence spacecraft now,” Popovkin said. “The possibility they were used cannot be ruled out.”

	Other Russian space experts said the cause of the failure was likely much more Earth-bound.

	“My strong belief is there are systemic problems in the industry which build spacecraft,” said Anatoly Zak, a Russian space historian and journalist who publishes the Web site RussianSpaceWeb.com. “Before the launch, I said the chances of mission success were nearly zero.”


"Space Junk"


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/45-years-after-americas-first-space-tragedy-lessons-linger/2012/01/27/gIQAJ9OwVQ_story.html
	45 years after America’s first space tragedy, lessons linger

	By Brian Vastag January 27, 2012



------


http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-3859216/Europe-s-lost-Mars-lander-SHOT-Nasa-claims-conspiracy-theorist.html

	Europe's lost Mars lander may have been SHOT DOWN by Nasa, claims conspiracy theorist


	...The keen Ufologist believes that the space agency has now turned its attention to Europe in a bid to stop other nations reaching Mars. 


------


https://spacepolicyonline.com/news/roscosmos-head-comments-on-phobos-grunt/
	He played down the risk of damage if the probe reenters. Others point out that the spacecraft carries a substantial amount of toxic fuel for its journey to Mars and return to Earth of a sample of Mars’s moon Phobos. Popovkin expressed confidence, however, that the spacecraft would burn up (“explode”) during reentry.


Maybe this is their sense of humor--later, it was said he died of hydrazine poisoning


------

http://www.spaceflightinsider.com/organizations/roscosmos/with-failures-piling-up-roscosmos-looking-to-retry-phobos-grunt-mission/
	“A Phobos sample return is a critical step in preparation for on-site resource utilization for future human missions, so it’s depressing how far the impressive Russian ambitions have been frustrated and delayed – we all are losers,” James Oberg, a noted space journalist and historian told SpaceFlight Insider. “Russia hasn’t had a successful lunar or planetary mission in more than a quarter century, and for them, Phobos remains ‘a bridge too far’ where high ambitions have forestalled a more modest but more plausible renewed deep space science strategy.”


If I remember right, this was part of a pattern, comes off a as weird. During the phobos-grunt's flight, Warmflash keeps offering less "ambitious" alternatives. After the phobos-grunt failure, Oberg and I think others say the same thing: "well, maybe we could do more modest space exploration." All these people have something really weird going on with how the write, and with Oberg and especially with Warmflash it comes off as a message to someone.


What else is common to these people and how they write?

off the top of my head, they are: Warmflash, Friedman, Oberg, Zak, Vastag.

Maybe others. Achenbach?


But they say generally similar things: trashing Russia's space program, saying we shouldn't be too "ambitious," offering dicey excuses for phobos-grunt's failure
