https://web.archive.org/web/20140824062611/http://freze.it/SitpPS
	Dear Colleagues !

	We need your support in the project "Phobos-Soil", because:
	Two ignitions of Phobos-Grunt engine unit are planned to put spacecraft onto interplanetary mission to Mars. But unfortunately in both cases the operation of spacecraft engine is invisible from Russian ground stations. It is planned to record data about system work during engine operation on-board and when reaching the visibility area of ground stations in Russia to transmit these data to ground. But it is not so comfortable approach especially in case of some deviation from nominal scenario including failure. So there is the idea to observe the engine operation by optical instruments, i.e. telescopes, taking into account the position of spacecraft in eclipse part of the orbit during engine burn and brightness of engine plume ( engine propellant is nonsymmetrical Hydrazine and Nitrogen tetroxide, consumed with the rate of 6 kilos per second). Such approach with fast enough delivery of the results of observations may allow to confirm the very fact of the engine operation and to reach more reliable forecast of spacecraft position when the visibility area from Russian ground stations will be reached. 


-------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fobos-Grunt
	Funded by the Russian Federal Space Agency and developed by Lavochkin and the Russian Space Research Institute, Fobos-Grunt was the first Russian-led interplanetary mission since the failed Mars 96. The last successful interplanetary missions were the Soviet Vega 2 in 1985–1986, and the partially successful Fobos 2 in 1988–1989.

	...The Chinese Yinghuo-1 orbiter was launched together with Fobos-Grunt.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yinghuo-1
	Yinghuo-1 was a Chinese Mars-exploration space probe, intended to be the first Chinese spacecraft to explore Mars. It was launched from Baikonur Cosmodrome, Kazakhstan, on 8 November 2011, along with the Russian Fobos-Grunt sample return spacecraft, which was intended to visit Mars' moon Phobos.



this rocket was a big deal


------
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fobos-Grunt

	The October 2009 launch date could not be achieved due to delays in the spacecraft development. During 2009, officials admitted that the schedule was very tight, but still hoped until the last moment that a launch could be made.[30] On 21 September 2009 the mission was officially announced to be delayed until the next launch window in 2011.[14][35][36][37] A main reason for the delay was difficulties encountered during development of the spacecraft's onboard computers. While the Moscow-based company Tehkhom provided the computer hardware on time, the internal NPO Lavochkin team responsible for integration and software development fell behind schedule.[38] The retirement of NPO Lavochkin's head Valeriy N. Poletskiy in January 2010 was widely seen as linked to the delay of Fobos-Grunt. Viktor Khartov was appointed the new head of the company. During the extra development time resulting from the delay, a Polish-built drill was added to the Phobos lander as a back-up soil extraction device.[39]


Interesting, delayed initially for software programs, and there was a firing there too.


	Following what would have been the planned end of the first burn, the spacecraft could not be located in the target orbit. The spacecraft was subsequently discovered to still be in its initial parking orbit and it was determined that the burn had not taken place.[4] Initially, engineers had about three days from launch to rescue the spacecraft before its batteries ran out.[20] It was then established that the craft's solar panels had deployed, giving engineers more time to restore control. It was soon discovered the spacecraft was adjusting its orbit, changing its expected re-entry from late November or December to as late as early 2012.[47] Even though it had not been contacted, the spacecraft seemed to be actively adjusting its perigee (the point it is closest to Earth in its orbit).[47][48]


what's up with that?


https://www.universetoday.com/91037/phobos-grunts-mysterious-thruster-activation-a-function-of-safe-mode-or-just-good-luck/
	Phobos-Grunt’s Mysterious Thruster Activation: A Function of Safe Mode or Just Good Luck?

	Article written: 16 Nov , 2011


	The Phobos-Grunt probe is still stuck in orbit around Earth. However, periodically the spacecraft experiences a mysterious slight boost in its orbit.  Following the first episode where this occurred, commentators speculated as to the cause.  The activation of the spacecraft’s thrusters – the small engines that are designed to steer the craft and make small adjustments  — was an obvious answer.

	Is spacecraft trying to save itself?

	The spacecraft is not responding to any communications, and engineers at the Russian Space Agency Roscosmos have decided that the craft had reverted to a safe mode after the engine of the Fregat rocket stage that was to propel her from a low to a higher orbit around Earth failed to ignite. While in safe mode, the craft had oriented herself to the Sun, using the thrusters to adjust her roll, pitch, and yaw. But to change the parameters of the orbit, she’d need to accelerate, so there was speculation that the needed thrust had come from leaks and venting of gases in a direction favorable to increased orbital stability.

	After a second episode during which the altitude increased again, according to Ria Novosti editor-columnist of the journal “News of Cosmonautics” Igor Lisov has reported that a source in the space industry had explained that the probe “Corrects her orbit” every now and then.

	Corrects her orbit? Does this mean that the probe knows where she is?

	Probably not. 


weird, says craft could not be contacted, but was correcting its orbit, giving people more time to save it

	If Grunt’s safe mode includes a program that fires thrusters every so often to keep the craft from entering the atmosphere in the event of a malfunction just after reaching low Earth orbit, no statements from Roscosmos have mentioned it, thus far. Whatever the reason, if it continues to occur, we can expect that the predicted date of atmospheric entry will be moved back again, just as it was moved from late December/early November to mid-January after the first orbital correction episode.


not said to be a feature of the craft to try to save itself


	As for the question of why a craft that merely is supposed to find the Sun while in safe mode fires thrusters in a direction that improves the orbit, perhaps it is just good luck, or perhaps it really is part of the safe mode. Until Roscosmos provides more information of what may have caused this, the reason for the orbital correction remains a mystery.


wtf is going on



https://www.universetoday.com/90985/update-on-phobos-grunt-might-the-life-experiment-be-recovered/
	But, amidst the loss of a mission into which so many engineers and scientists have invested their dreams, a little bit could mean a lot.


right, so this rocket was a big deal


https://www.universetoday.com/91127/consolation-prize-for-phobos-grunt-experts-consider-possibilities-for-sending-spacecraft-to-moon-or-asteroid/
	Consolation Prize for Phobos-Grunt? Experts Consider Possibilities for Sending Spacecraft to Moon or Asteroid

	18 Nov, 2011

	If communication with Russia’s troubled Phobos-Grunt is not established by November 21, the window for a trajectory to the Martian moon Phobos, will close, experts say. But this would not mean that the spacecraft could not travel to a different destination. In a statement published earlier today by the news and information agency Ria Novosti, Russian space expert Igor Lisov suggested that Phobos-Grunt could be sent to orbit the Moon – Earth’s Moon, that is – or may be even an asteroid, if communication is restored at any point before the 13-ton probe re-enters Earth’s atmosphere.


Igor Lisov says maybe the probe can go somewhere besides Mars


	...But while the apogee has been decreasing (down to 326 km today), the perigee actually has been increasing by about 0.5 kilometers per day (up to 210.2 km today), due to periodic maneuvering by way of the probe’s small thrusters. After it was realized that the first maneuvering episode had improved the orbit, the predicted reentry date was adjusted to mid January, and if the thrusting episodes continue we can expect the date of the probe’s demise to be moved back still more.


Does warmflash know something? seems weird. Whole thing is wierd.


	The improved orbit gives controllers at the Russian Space Agency, Roscosmos, several weeks –even more, if the perigee continues to get higher– to restore communication with Phobos-Grunt, allowing for the uploading of new commands. But, even if control is restored, a flight to Mars and Phobos will not be possible after Monday, November 21st, Lisov explained. Although the Fregat stage is loaded with fuel, to reach Mars, given Grunt’s orbit around Earth and the alignment between Earth and Mars after Monday, would require a higher change in velocity –what propulsion specialists call delta v – than the Fregat is capable of producing.


Lisov says window until November 21st to have enough fuel to get to Mars


	A Consolation Prize

	While cautioning that the idea of sending Phobos-Grunt somewhere other than Phobos falls into the realm of wishful thinking, Lisov urged that efforts to reconnect with the spacecraft continue in full force as long as the craft is in space. Despite several failures of lunar missions, the former Soviet space program did succeed in returning samples from the lunar surface to Earth in the 1970s. Thus, re-purposing the current mission as “Luna-Grunt” or something of that nature is not likely to have the same appeal as Phobos-Grunt has among Russians. Nor could the Grunt landing craft, designed to scoop a surface sample into a capsule that would return to Earth, even set down on the lunar surface. But other components of the science payload might be useful. Though built to observe Mars,China’s Yinghuo-1 orbiter might be able to do something interesting from lunar orbit. Instruments that were to remain on the Phobosian surface might be useful as well.

	Then, there is the issue of avoiding reentry. Experts at Roscosmos are confident that the many tons of nitrogen teroxide and hydrazine in Grunt’s fuel tanks will burn up high in the atmosphere if the probe reenters. But people around the planet are scared, and thus might prefer that the fuel be used, even for a one-way mission with undefined science objectives. More importantly, achieving in a partial victory by sending the spacecraft anywhere but back to Earth could give rise to an Apollo 13-like milieu that might reinvigorate the Russian planetary program.


Warmflash pushing the idea of "how about just send it around the Moon"


Does Warmflash not want to rescue Mars mission?


	...Lisov also speculated about sending the Grunt spacecraft to an asteroid instead of the Moon. Various asteroids travel fairly close to Earth, and it’s plausible that a Grunt probe revived after November 21 would have enough delta v to reach one of them. Unlike Earth’s Moon, whose gravity the Grunt lander was not designed to withstand, many asteroids are small. Theoretically, Grunt’s lander could set down on any celestial body with a gravitational force similar to that of Phobos. If any such asteroid candidate exists –and this is a big if– the ascent engine, designed to propel the Grunt return capsule back to Earth might be utilized to deliver a sample of the asteroid, along with the LIFE experiment.


What, does Warmflash not want to go to Phobos?


http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/crux/2014/09/08/where-build-off-world-colonies/
	Forget Mars. Here’s Where We Should Build Our First Off-World Colonies
	By David Warmflash 


https://twitter.com/CosmicEvolution?ref_src=twsrc^google|twcamp^serp|twgr^author

Warmflash is creepy





https://www.universetoday.com/91207/can-phobos-grunt-still-be-saved-scientists-hold-out-hope-as-deadlines-loom/
	22 Nov 2011

	...Although the launch window for a round-trip to Mars closed yesterday (November 21, 2011) with Russia’s Phobos-Grunt probe still circling in low Earth orbit, a one-way flight to the Red Planet will be possible for another few weeks. As Russian engineers frantically try to contact the silent probe, scientists from the Yinghuo-1 and LIFE experiments are holding out hope that they could still complete their missions, or a perhaps even a modified version of their experiments.


did they (whoever "they" are) specifically want phobos-grunt to fail?


	...Thought to have reverted to safe mode, Phobos-Grunt has been flying straight and periodically adjusting her orbit using small thruster engines. While this maneuvering has extended the amount of time that the probe can remain in space before reentering Earth’s atmosphere, ground controllers have been struggling to establish a communication link.


Warmflash's writings read like some kind of negotiation going on


	...Had the malfunction occurred just one step further into the flight –after a first burn of the Fregat was to raise the apogee (the highest point) of the spacecraft’s orbit to an altitude of about 4,170 kilometers– the timing and geometry between Earth-bound transmitters and the spacecrafts antennae would have made signaling the craft a straight forward task. But with Grunt orbiting much lower (thus moving much faster with respect to the ground), and with an antenna that could receive the signal obstructed partially by a fuel tank that was to be jettisoned after the first Fregat burn, controllers have only a couple of minutes at a time to attempt communication. Since the spacecraft was not designed for this scenario, getting her attention may be depend on prospect of getting the signals toward her at some unlikely angle. In other words, restoring control over Phobos-Grunt may be a matter of luck.


curiously-timed malfunction


	...If this should happen, however, where should the probe travel? As of yesterday, it no longer will be able to go Mars, land on the surface of Phobos, scoop a 200 gram sample into the specially-designed return capsule, and still have a window for the capsule to be launched on a trajectory back to Earth. Last week, a lunar mission was discussed as a possibility.


still pushing lunar mission


https://www.universetoday.com/91239/contact-established-with-phobos-grunt-spacecraft-can-the-mission-go-on/
	23 Nov 2011

	In an exciting development in the ongoing story of the Phobos-Grunt mission, a tracking station at Perth, Australia established contact with the Russian spacecraft on November 22 at 20:25 UT. This was the first signal received on Earth since the mission to Mars’ moon was launched on November 8, 2011.

	Teams from ESA, who made the initial contact, are now working closely with engineers in Russia to determine how best to maintain communications with the spacecraft. As controllers begin the task of figuring out how to use this achievement to enable sending the spacecraft new commands, discussion is ongoing on whether the launch window will still be open for the craft to complete the mission.

	The hopes are now is that at the very least engineers can prevent the spacecraft from plummeting back to Earth – and with guarded optimism that the mission could proceed in some manner. 


Warmflash sounds dissapointed


	...Before contact was made, some reports said that if contact was made by November 24, the mission could proceed as planned, while other experts were saying that the launch window to complete the sample return mission closed on November 21.


Disagreement among "experts" on mission window, Warmflash chooses more pessimistic one

	...Costing 5 billion rubles, or about 160 million US dollars, the interplanetary module is equipped with a descent engine and legs for landing on the Martian moon, machinery for scooping the regolith sample, and about 50 kilograms of extremely advanced scientific equipment whose value to the mission does not depend on whether the regolith sample makes it back to Earth.


what does that mean?


	...On the other hand, controllers might consider sending the return capsule to Phobos despite the closure of the launch window for a return flight. After landing on the Martian moon atop the interplanetary module, the ascent stage need only wait until the next launch window opens 26 months later for arrival on Earth in 2016.


Don't get what he was saying... like was he pushing for not returning the phobos regolith? if can just wait for next launch window then do that.


If all data sent over remote signal than someone could just spoof it anyway. Would want it on earth to analyze.



https://www.universetoday.com/91386/canary-islands-antenna-being-modified-to-boost-signal-to-struggling-russian-mars-probe/
	Canary Islands Antenna Being Modified to Boost Signal to Struggling Russian Mars Probe

	30 Nov, 2011

	...Last week, ESA succeeded in communicating with Phobos-Grunt on two successive days after a feedhorn antenna was added to an antenna near Perth, Australia similar to the facility in Maspalomas. Although this enabled the downloading of spacecraft telemetry, attempts later in the week to make renewed contact failed. After no attempts were made over the weekend, commands aimed at getting the spacecraft to boost its orbit were sent yesterday, also from Perth, but tracking this morning revealed that the commands had not been executed.


decked out antenna modified to communicate with probe, engine firing command sent, but nothing happened


	...Although Phobos-Grunt was delivered into space nearly three weeks ago by a Zenit 2 rocket launch that appeared flawless, an upper stage rocket known as Fregat failed to ignite. This left the spacecraft in a low Earth orbit that improved as a result of the automated maneuvering, but that will decay by mid-January if the altitude is not boosted more significantly. 


now he says correcting with automated manuevering--earlier said "oh maybe is just luck"


	...Should this result in the spacecraft executing commands to climb to a higher orbit, further communication and diagnosis of spacecraft systems then would become much easier.


would be nice to know wtf happened


https://www.universetoday.com/91646/not-giving-up-yet-esa-resumes-effort-to-communicate-with-phobos-grunt/
	Not Giving Up Yet: ESA Resumes Effort to Communicate with Phobos-Grunt

	7 Dec, 2011


	Russia’s Phobos-Grunt spacecraft is in no better position than it was a month ago, when it reached low Earth orbit on November 9 yet failed to ignite the upper stage engine that was to propel it to Phobos, the larger of Mars’ two small moons. Indeed, with an orbit measuring 204.823 kilometers at perigee (the low point) and 294.567 kilometers at apogee as of today, the spacecraft is well on its well to a fiery reentry through Earth’s atmosphere in early January if it cannot be rescued in the intervening time. 


did it stop correcting its orbit? perigee was higher earlier


	...Despite success in contacting Grunt and getting it to send telemetry two weeks ago using a modified antenna in Perth Australia, subsequent attempts to command the spacecraft to boost her orbit failed.

	Then last week, after modifying another antenna, this one in Maspalomas on the Canary Islands, the European Space Agency (ESA) announced that efforts to track and communicate with the spacecraft would end. As a result, any remaining hope that the craft might at least be boosted to a more stable orbit to allow for diagnoses and eventual repair faded away.


multiple antennas try to send command to boost orbit, didn't work


	But, in response to requests from the Russian Space Agency (Roscosmos), ESA now has decided to renew tracking and communications efforts from the Maspalomas station. Located off of the northwest coast of Africa, Maspalomas is well-situated with respect to Phobos-Grunt’s course around Earth. Since fewer communication attempts have been made from Maspalomas as compared with Perth, ESA and Roscosmos may be thinking that not all potential tricks to get the geometry right have been exhausted. Thus, new attempts to hail the unpiloted science probe began on Monday and will continue through Friday, December 9th. Presumably, ESA would continue to support the mission beyond Friday, if anything happens suggesting that Phobos-Grunt has received the instructions and is capable of responding, even in part.


Warmflash ever the downer, says maybe its not capable of responding (although was "mysteriously" capable of correcting its own orbit before).


	...Designed to land on the surface of Phobos, the Grunt spacecraft carries about 50 kilograms of scientific equipment built to make celestial and geophysical measurements, and to conduct mineralogical and chemical analysis of the regolith (crushed rock and dust) of the tiny moon. The chemical analysis that is to be conducted includes a search for organic matter, the building material for life. Studies to be conducted on the Phobosian surface potentially could elucidate the origins of Phobos and the other Martian moon, Deimos. Additionally, the presence of organic matter on Phobos would suggest that the surface of Mars itself contains organics.


I wonder if his stupid little "LIFE" frisbee could contaminate that whole effort and ruin the data


	Despite findings by NASA’s Viking landing crafts in the 1970s suggesting that the surface of Mars lacks organic material, studies by more recent probes suggest that compounds known as perchlorates –detected by Viking but dismissed as contaminants from Earth– may have been native to Mars. This issue will be investigated further when NASA’s Curiosity rover arrives on the Red Planet several months from now.


says the perchlorates findings could have been contamination from earth, although the new study Warmflash and Russian propaganda outlets like to point to say it must have been in the soil everywhere.


	...Although prospects for this ambitious mission still look bleak, Alexander Zakharov of Russia’s Space Research Institute, who was instrumental in getting the LIFE experiment onto the Grunt mission, has suggested that a new Grunt mission might be launched, presumably on time for the next launch window to Mars, which opens in approximately 26 months.


Zakharov wants to launch another one (but they didn't, why?)


	...Although the window for a trip to Mars is about to close, should control over Phobos-Grunt be restored, it might be kept in a higher orbit for two years, or sent to an alternate destination, such as Earth’s own Moon, or an asteroid. 


still pluggin moon


https://www.universetoday.com/91741/a-day-in-the-sun-will-it-make-a-difference-for-russias-phobos-grunt/
	13 Dec, 2011

	It has been trapped in low Earth orbit for more than a month. So low is the orbit that it moves too fast to be contacted – unless controllers on the ground just happen to beam a signal at some unlikely angle. So short does its battery power last that it must be in sunlight while also in position to receive signals. Then, it must still have power to send telemetry back to the ground.


at least according to Warmflash, everything naturally stacked against communicating with phobos-grunt

	...Tracking of Grunt’s orbit has shown that its high point (apogee) and low point (perigee) continue to decrease, measuring about 289 kilometers and 203 kilometers in altitude, respectively, the last time I checked.


orbit decreasing now, instead of correcting itself


Stories out of Russia in recent days describe how electrical cables found to be malfunctioning weeks before the launch were cut and connections re-soldered in a hurry to have the craft ready. Add to this the fact that the major sources on developments with the Grunt mission since its November 9 launch – Ria Novosti, the Russian Space Web, and ESA operations – all expect the craft to reenter Earth’s atmosphere in early January.


blames on wires cut and resoldered in a hurry

	...Beginning Tuesday, December 13 at 17:00 universal time (UT) to Wednesday December 14, 23:00, Phobos-Grunt will be in sunlight throughout its entire orbit. It is not completely clear whether or not ESA will attempt to contact the probe during this period from Perth, or Maspalomas. Although attempts from Maspalomas were made throughout last week, the same attempts were scheduled to end on Friday, December 9. On the other hand, in a letter informing scientists participating in the mission that failure was the outcome, Phobos-Grunt science director, Lev Zelenyi, wrote: “Lavochkin Association specialists will continue their attempts to establish connection with the spacecraft and send commands until the very end of its existence.” Thus, despite the fact that the Russian Grunt team now is focused on the issue of reentry, we should not be surprised if they ask ESA to make one more attempt on Tuesday.


its like he's just taunting people now


	Will the greater than usual amount of sunlight allow the spacecraft’s communication system to work better than it usually does when it travels over tracking stations? Maybe yes, and maybe no. We should not get our hopes up that the craft will actually do anything but fall to Earth, and we’ve already discussed the possibility of the craft’s return capsule coming back in one piece.

	But let us allow Phobos-Grunt its day in the Sun.



https://www.universetoday.com/91766/russian-space-program-prepares-for-phobos-grunt-re-entry/
	13 Dec 2011


 	...Beginning on Tuesday, December 13th, Phobos-Grunt’s course around Earth will expose it to sunlight, constantly for about thirty hours. Since difficulties in communication may be influenced by the amount of time that Grunt’s battery remains charged, constant sunlight may increase the chance that spacecraft will respond to commands to boost its orbit. Thus, Roscosmos has asked ESA to renew efforts to hail the spacecraft during the sunlight period.


they went for last shot with 30 hours of sunlight, still didn't work


	...In a letter sent to the international team of scientific collaborators participating in the mission, Lev Zelenyi, Director of Russia’s Space Research Institute, wrote that the analysis of the coming reentry will include calculations of the probability of where and which fragments may hit the ground (if any). Zeleny also noted how non-Russian organizations, such as ESA, NASA, NORAD-STRATCOM, and numerous amateur observers, have been helping in tracking the spacecraft to understand its orbital and attitude parameters and to establish communication.


Zeleny seems to appreciate international effort


	...While efforts to hail Phobos-Grunt will continue until the craft actually begins a fiery descent in January, Roscosmos is moving forward on several unpiloted missions to explore Earth’s own Moon, beginning within the next 2-3 years.


huh


https://www.universetoday.com/91832/russian-lunar-exploration-program-at-full-speed-despite-failure-of-mars-moon-probe/
	Russian Lunar Exploration Program at Full Speed, Despite Failure of Mars Moon Probe

	15 Dec, 2011


	While the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos) prepares for the pending destruction of its Phobos-Grunt spacecraft, an ambitious program focusing on lunar exploration is moving to center stage. Although the Soviet Union launched three successful lunar sample return missions, the last such probe was Luna-24, in 1976.


	...Previously, I’ve used the term Luna-Grunt in reference to a re-purposed Phobos-Grunt, sent to orbit Earth’s own Moon, if control is restored but too late to send it to the Martian moon Phobos. But Grunt is the Russian word for “ground,” or “soil.” Just as Phobos-Grunt was designed to analyze and return Phobosian regolith (not actually soil, but crushed rock and dust on the surface of a celestial body), Russia’s Luna-Grunt program will study lunar regolith. Currently, two Luna-Grunt spacecraft are planned, each featuring an orbiter and a lander. While the first Luna-Grunt lander, scheduled for a 2014 launch, will carry a rover loaded with instruments for regolith analysis, the second lander will feature an ascent stage with a sample return capsule. Designed to return to Earth, the Luna-Grunt capsule will be similar to return capsule of Phobos-Grunt, but will carry five times the amount of regolith (1 kilogram for Luna-Grunt vs. 200 grams for Phobos-Grunt).


so for whatever reason they decided to go back to Moon instead of Mars?


	...While the lunar missions to be launched during the next half decade will be unpiloted, statements by various Russian scientists and cosmonauts in recent months suggest that Roscosmos is interested in Earth’s companion as a location for a lunar base, or even a colony .



https://www.universetoday.com/92147/phobo-grunt-predicted-to-fall-in-afghanistan-on-january-14/
	Phobos-Grunt Predicted to Fall in Afghanistan on January 14

	27 Dec , 2011


	...To be sure, the possibility of recovering an unharmed returned capsule and LIFE depends on the willingness of the inhabitants around the landing site to allow the Russian Space Agency to pick it up. Given the proximity of the predicted landing area to a war zone and the fact that the Taliban are not known for being enthusiastic about space exploration and astrobiology, it is also possible that a landing on land could turn out no better than a landing over the deepest part of the ocean.


but the KGB would be able to pick it up


https://www.universetoday.com/94972/sam-nasas-attempt-to-repeat-vikings-search-for-martian-organics/
	3 May, 2012

	...According to Viking investigator Gilbert Levin, the Viking landers already discovered Martian life. Back in 1976-1977, Levin’s instrument, known as the Labeled Release (LR) experiment, yielded positive results at Chryse Planitia and Utopia Planitia, the two Viking landing sites. When treated with a solution containing small, organic chemicals labeled with radioactive carbon, regolith samples taken at the landing sites released a gas, indicated by an increase in radioactivity in the space above the sample.

	While Levin believes the gas is carbon dioxide resulting from the oxidation of the organic chemicals, it’s also conceivable that the chemicals were reduced to another gas, methane. Either way, since heating the samples to a temperature high enough to kill most of the microbes that we know on Earth prevented the gas release, the Viking science team concluded initially that the LR had detected life.

	Most of the science team, but not Levin, decided that the gas release in the LR must have resulted from a non-biological chemical reaction. This rethinking was due to variety of factors, but the most important of which was that the gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer (GC-MS) of each lander failed to detect organic matter in the samples. As the late Carl Sagan explained it on his television series, Cosmos, “If there is life on Mars, where are the dead bodies?”

	While most astrobiologists and planetary scientists do not agree with Levin that the results of his 36 year-old experiment constitute conclusive evidence for Martian life, there is a growing number of Mars scientists who are equivocal on the issue. According to Levin, Sagan moved into the equivocal category in 1996, after astrobiologist David McKay and colleagues published a paper in the journal Science describing fossilized life in meteorite ALH84001, one of a handful of meteorites known to be from Mars.



so what's going on here


why is Warmflash saying this


	This is not to say that other attempts were not made during the intervening years. In 1996, the Russian Federal Space Agency launched a Mars-bound probe carrying not only organic chemistry equipment but an upgraded version of Levin’s experiment. Rather than treating regolith samples with a mixture of “right-handed” and “left-handed” forms of organic substrates (known in chemistry as racemic mixtures), the new LR would have treated some samples with a left-handed substrate (L-cysteine) and others with the substrate’s mirror image (D-cysteine).

	Had results been the same for L- and D-cysteine, a non-biological mechanism would have seemed all the more likely. However, if the active agent in the Martian regolith favored one compound at the expense of the other, this would indicate life. Even more intriguing: if the active agent favored D-cysteine, it would have suggested an origin of life on Mars separate from the origin of life on Earth, since terrestrial life forms use mostly left-handed amino acids. Such a result would suggest that life originates fairly easily, implying a cosmos teaming with living forms.

	But Russia’s Mars ’96 probe crashed in the Pacific Ocean shortly after liftoff. A few years later, the European Space Agency sent Beagle 2 to Mars, carrying an advanced organic detection package, but this probe too was lost.


weird

creepy coming from him


https://www2.jpl.nasa.gov/snc/nasa1.html


here they talk about the Mars fossils


------

Warmflash writings are unusual


all of his posts on that site around the time phobos-grunt was in orbit


writings come off as a negotiation, communicating with someone else


says "oh what luck" that the craft was correcting its own orbit, reason why a "mystery," says could just be "luck"


then offers a bunch of alternatives: maybe send to an astroid? maybe a moon? maybe a one way trip to phobos, but don't return the sample? always pointing out that time is running out.


then teams around the world haul ass to deck-out radars, regain communication with the craft

around this time the "luck" in orbit correcting seems to run out, orbit decaying

even with more powerful radar, 30 hours of sunlight, sending commands to ignite engine fail, Warmflash posits that the craft cannot be communicated with

craft falls back to earth, Warmflash points out that it would land in territory of Taliban, impossible to recover


Warmflash goes on to say "well we can still do moon missions, how about that?"


Warmflash's final post points out that previous missions to perform certain life-detecting experiments on Mars had all failed.




http://archive.4plebs.org/pol/thread/80653445/#q80660444
	No surveillance technology is particularly sophisticated. Have you ever spoken something that meant one thing to a broader group, but another to a particular peer because of an inside communication history?

	Highly intelligent individuals are highly adept at this, so we can speak volumes without you even knowing the conversation exists. 


or highly FUCKED UP individuals


------

http://abcnews.go.com/Technology/russian-phobos-grunt-mars-probe-stuck-earth-orbit/story?id=14913812
    By NED POTTER

	"We had a difficult night, we could not locate the spacecraft for a very long time. Now we now its coordinates," said Vladimir Popovkin, the head of the Russian space agency, according to the Russian news agency RIA Novosti. 


	..NASA's Opportunity rover, which landed on Mars in 2004, is still working, and a new, larger one, called Curiosity, is scheduled for launch Nov. 25. In the half century since the space age began, the Russian space program has tried and failed repeatedly to reach Mars.



------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fobos-Grunt
	Initially, the head of Roscosmos Vladimir Popovkin, suggested that the Fobos-Grunt failure might have been the result of sabotage by a foreign nation.[67][68] He also stated that risky technical decisions had been made because of limited funding. On 17 January 2012, an unidentified Russian official speculated that a U.S. radar stationed on the Marshall Islands may have inadvertently disabled the probe, but cited no evidence.[69] Popovkin suggested the microchips may have been counterfeit,[70][71] then he announced on 1 February that a burst of cosmic radiation may have caused computers to reboot and go into a standby mode.[72][73] Industry experts cast doubt on the claim citing how unlikely the effects of such a burst are in low Earth orbit, inside the protection of Earth's magnetic field.[74]


Popovkin first says sabotage, then problem with microchips, then says "burst of cosmic radiation," although they wouldn't make sense for LEO

	On 6 February 2012, the commission investigating the mishap concluded that Fobos-Grunt mission failed because of "a programming error which led to a simultaneous reboot of two working channels of an onboard computer." The craft's rocket pack never fired due to the computer reboot, leaving the craft stranded in Earth orbit.[75][76] Although the specific failure was identified, experts suggest it was the culmination of poor quality control,[77][78] lack of testing,[79] and corruption.[80] Russian president Dmitry Medvedev suggested that those responsible should be punished and perhaps criminally prosecuted.[70][81][82]


commission says "programming error" caused failure, blame "corruption"


	In January 2012, scientists and engineers at the Russian Space Research Institute and NPO Lavochkin called for a repeat sample return mission called Fobos-Grunt-2[83] and Boomerang[84][85] for launch in 2020.[86][87] Popovkin declared that they would soon attempt to repeat the Fobos-Grunt mission, if an agreement was not reached for Russian co-operation in the European Space Agency's ExoMars program.[88] However, since an agreement was reached for the inclusion of Russia as a full project partner,[89] some instruments originally developed for Fobos-Grunt were flown in the ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter.[90]


wanted to repeat 2020, but scientists reasigned to another mission

	On 2 August 2014 the Russian Academy of Sciences stated that the Phobos-Grunt repeat mission might be restarted for a launch approximately in 2024.[91][92] In August 2015, the ESA-Roscosmos working group on post-ExoMars cooperation, completed a joint study for a possible future Phobos sample return mission, preliminary discussions were held,[93][94] and in May 2015 the Russian Academy of Sciences submitted a budget proposal.[93][95]

	Roscosmos is also currently studying a proposal for an international Mars sample return mission called Mars-Grunt,[96][97] to take place by 2026.[98] This Mars sample-return mission would be developed from the technologies demonstrated by Fobos-Grunt 2.


Roscosmos still wants to go to Mars


	...Barry E. DiGregorio, Director of the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return (ICAMSR), criticised the LIFE experiment carried by Fobos-Grunt as a violation of the Outer Space Treaty due to the possibility of contamination of Phobos or Mars with the microbial spores and live bacteria it contains should it have lost control and crash-landed on either body.[114] It is speculated that the heat-resistant extremophile bacteria could survive such a crash, on the basis that Microbispora bacteria survived the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster.[115]

	According to Fobos-Grunt Chief Designer Maksim Martynov, the probability of the probe accidentally reaching the surface of Mars was much lower than the maximum specified for Category III missions, the type assigned to Fobos-Grunt and defined in COSPAR's planetary protection policy (in accordance with Article IX of the Outer Space Treaty)


interesting


------


http://www.planetary.org/blogs/guest-blogs/lou-friedman/3361.html
	Louis D. Friedman • February 6, 2012
	Phobos-Grunt Failure Report Released

	Back when the U.S. suffered several Mars mission failures, we indulged in some dark humor at JPL, blaming the "great galactic ghoul" for gobbling up our spacecraft. For a while, after the failure of Phobos-Grunt, it appeared that some in Russia were taking the blame-game seriously and grasping at improbable external causes for the loss of the spacecraft.


who are these pricks

"planetary society" has Warmflash as a member iirc. Or at least "collaberates" with them


	But it appears that Phobos-Grunt was doomed before it launched on November 9, 2011. Cheap parts, design shortcomings, and lack of pre-flight testing ensured that the spacecraft would never fulfill its goals. Its troubles became apparent a few hours after its launch, when it failed to fire thrusters to take it out of Earth orbit and on its way to Mars and its moon Phobos. It fell back to Earth on January 15.

	Between launch and re-entry, a flurry of excuses were floated both within and without Russia. News media quoted Russian space official blaming beamed power from an American radar station, radiation from a solar storm, and counterfeit electronic chips from an unnamed foreign supplier.

	Thankfully, this obfuscation turned out to be noise, and the actual failure report issued last week by the Russian space agency (Roscosmos) makes it clear that the fault lies at home -- due to non-space qualified parts being used in some of the electronics circuits. This is a design failure by the spacecraft engineers that might have been caught had they performed adequate component and system testing prior to flight. But they did not.


gleefully blames them for having "bad parts"


	...What's next in Mars exploration? Scientists in Russia would like to try another Phobos-Grunt mission. But this would be expensive and is likely not possible before 2020. To overcome the system failures made blatant by this latest failure would require significant changes in the Russian space industry. On the table, however, is a nearer-term and easier-to-implement proposal: the Russians could launch the European Space Agency's Mars Trace Gas Orbiter in 2016 and the ExoMars rover in 2018. In return for launches, the Russians would share in the missions' science. The Russian and European space agencies are now considering the possibilities. Sadly, the U.S. was supposed to be a partner in the 2016/2018 Mars missions, but it appears that the NASA budget to be released next week will kill that plan. Indeed, the future of NASA's Mars program may be at risk. Stay tuned.


well this guy's just a downer


	Lou Friedman, former Executive Director of The Planetary Society, served as Principal Investigator on the Phobos LIFE experiment on the Phobos-Grunt mission.



http://www.businessinsider.com/mars-travel-humans-space-robots-2016-12
	Louis Friedman, an aerospace engineer and author of "Human Spaceflight: From Mars to the Stars," believes that humans may never travel past Mars. 


http://spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=44083
	Asteroid Retrieval: A Stepping Stone to Mars Statement of Dr. Louis Friedman to the Space Subcommittee of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Science, Technology and Space 

	...This Subcommittee does not need me to dwell however on the difficulties, costs and exigencies of a human Mars mission. It will require technical developments and scientific understanding which we do not yet have. There are many steps we must take before we can initiate the humans to Mars project. The Asteroid Retrieval Mission creates a first step (beyond the Moon) - the only one we are now capable of performing and the only one which we can afford within the current space program budget.



http://www.planetary.org/blogs/guest-blogs/lou-friedman/3361.html
	The spacecraft computer failed when two of the chips in the electronics suffered radiation damage. (The Russians say that radiation damage is the most likely cause, but the spacecraft was still in low Earth orbit beneath the radiation belts.) Whatever triggered the chip failure, the ultimate cause was the use of non-space-qualified electronic components. When the chips failed, the on-board computer program crashed.


oh so it failed because the chips weren't shielded, even though it was in LEO--sure, that makes sense!


------


https://www.nasaspaceflight.com/2011/11/live-fobos-grunt-recovery-efforts-underway/
	UPDATE: Further communications were made between Wednesday and Thursday, although the telemetry is understood to be incomplete and “garbled” – requiring a large amount of work to gain data from.

	There are many conflicting reports, mainly based around the quality of the telemtry and how much data has been gathered. Russian media have reported that a second dish – at the Baikonur Cosmodrome – has been in contact with the spacecraft on Thursday.


------


http://www.russianspaceweb.com/phobos_grunt_launch.html
	Several independent observers reported seeing Phobos-Grunt moving across the sky without discernable flashing -- a possible evidence that the probe's attitude control system was keeping it from tumbling in space. In the meantime, latest data from NORAD showed that instead of expected 215-meter loss of its orbital altitude, the spacecraft actually slightly climbed upward by 138 meters by the end of the day on November 10. Thus, a perigee (lowest point) of its orbit got a total increase of under 300 meters and an apogee (highest point) stopped its decay. During November 11, further slight increase in the perigee and in an inclination of the orbit toward the Equator became discernable in orbital parameters. The phenomenon could be a result of inaccuracy in measurements, but also a possible indication of some propulsion activity, such as attitude-control thruster firings or propellant leaks.

	November 12

	All attempts to establish contact with the Phobos-Grunt spacecraft made by Russian and European ground controllers during the night from November 11 to November 12 proved fruitless once again.

	November 13

	By November 13, Phobos-Grunt stopped its mysterious thrust upwards, a leading satellite observer, Ted Molzcan reported based on published data from the US tracking radar. The spacecraft's orbit resumed its slow natural decay, dropping by around 1.2 kilometers of altitude along a semi-major axis. According to Molzcan, Phobos-Grunt would reenter the atmosphere on Jan. 12, 2012. 


stopped ascent Nov 13

	During the day, the anemic probe passed some 80 kilometers from the International Space Station, however due to difference in orbital planes of two vehicles, the relative speed had probably been very high during the rendezvous, leaving residents of the outpost little time to see the probe, even if they tried to do so.


what, did it almost crash into ISS?

even if someone wanted to do that deliberately, would think that would be an unlikely choice? would be a bit too weird.


	...November 14

	Following the successful launch of the Soyuz TMA-22 spacecraft in the early hours of November 14, the head of Roskosmos, Vladimir Popovkin, had to face journalists during a traditional post-liftoff press conference. Not surprisingly, he was showered with questions on the fate of Phobos-Grunt. Popovkin admitted that chances of salvaging the mission had been low, but further attempts to communicate with the probe would continue until the closing of the window for departure to Mars at the beginning of December 2011. This statement contradicted previous reliable reports that the last possibility for Phobos-Grunt to escape the Earth orbit toward Mars would be on November 20. Moreover, the precession of the probe's parking orbit made its departure toward Mars impossible after first few days in orbit. (Possibly, some later departure would be possible with a sacrifice of propellant previously reserved for other tasks in the mission.)

	It would also make sense to continue efforts to recover all possible data from the spacecraft until its reentry, so that the disastrous mission could at least help to design better spacecraft in the future. According to Popovkin, if all efforts to save the mission fail, Phobos-Grunt would plunge back to Earth around January 2012, with little or no debris reaching the Earth surface due to the explosion of 7.5 tons of propellant in the upper atmosphere.


Popovkin says we can save it, gives timeline for saving it longer than reported by Russian state media.

author says Popovkin contradicted "reliable reports"


	...November 16

	On the night from November 15 to November 16, a ground station in Ussuriisk in the Russian Far East made a desperate and, apparently, completely hopeless attempt to communicate with the spacecraft, as if it had been in the Earth escape trajectory following a nominal burn of the MDU propulsion unit. Unnamed officials reportedly insisted on this "communication session," after reading on the Internet that some observers in Brazil had seen what looked like a firing of the probe's main engine. Obviously, nothing came out of this effort, except for more comments on the web about gross incompetence of the mission management.


author seems biased


	November 17

	A small increase in orbital altitude of Phobos-Grunt was detected again between the 137th and 141th orbit of the mission. At the same time, the rocket stage, which delivered Phobos-Grunt into orbit, continued losing its altitude steadily. As before, this orbit change was attributed to the propulsive action of low-thrust engines onboard the spacecraft, which were apparently still receiving commands to maintain the attitude.


thrusters still increasing altitude nov 17


	November 21

	Though mostly symbolic, the Phobos-Grunt mission objectives had to be officially abandoned, as the window of opportunity to send the spacecraft to Mars (in case it had stayed on the ground) closed on November 21. Despite persisting lack of official information, the disastrous mission still remained a popular topic in the Russian press, however many publications carried a mix of baseless hopes and innuendo, including ludicrous reports that the spacecraft did leave the Earth orbit in unknown direction and discussions of the "Russian curse" in the exploration of Mars. In the meantime, the Russian scientific community had to do a difficult soul-searching and pondering what to do next. Sources at the Space Research Institute, IKI, and one of its partners abroad told the editor of this web site that projects like Venera-D, Luna-Resurs and Luna-Glob (all relying on hardware developed for Phobos-Grunt) had remained on track and, as of November 20, there had been no immediate decision to stop any of them. As of the Russian return to Mars, most hopes were now riding with a European invitation to Russia to join the ExoMars mission... and save it from likely cancellation due to lack of funds.


"Russian curse" in exploration of Mars


	...Baikonur hears from Phobos-Grunt

	Also, on November 24, RIA Novosti reported that a Russian ground station in Baikonur, apparently manned by NPO Lavochkin telemetry specialists, was able to receive signal and telemetry from Phobos-Grunt, following its pass at 16:05 Moscow Time.


them and Perth got some telemetry, one other I think


	...Although popular press was making wild proposals on the future plans for the Phobos-Grunt mission, the only realistic goal for ground controllers at the time was to receive useful information on the cause of its failure. If the culprit could be found and if critical systems onboard the spacecraft could be reactivated, attempts to establish some or even full control over the spacecraft would be made. Only then, it would be possible to consider what, if any, further steps could be made to continue the mission. Obviously, the first priority would be boosting the spacecraft to a higher, longer-lasting orbit, giving mission planners additional time to develop new flight scenarios. Depending on the probe's remaining resources and technical condition, it could be sent away from Earth for safety reasons and for testing or even aimed at one of potential destinations in the Solar System, such as an asteroid, the Moon or even Mars, for a flyby or some other abbreviated mission. As a very last resort, the spacecraft could be directed into the Earth atmosphere to burn up over an unpopulated area. All these options were long shots, given a complete lack of control over the spacecraft and only sporadic communications.


author (Anatoly Zak) says similar things to Warmflash


------


http://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-15767184
	Anatoly Zak


	If all attempts to restore the contact with the probe fail, Russian scientists, and many of their colleagues abroad, would lose a unique opportunity for planetary research, for which they have been preparing for almost two decades. 

	Even worse, Phobos-Grunt served as a flagship for the Russian planetary exploration programme, intended to pave the way for an array of unmanned missions to many corners of the Solar System, including the Moon, Mars, Venus, Mercury and even moons of Jupiter.

	Obviously, it is very early to predict how the Phobos-Grunt fiasco would affect the future of the Russian space program, however the nation's scientists had already started looking for ways out of the crisis.

	"My immediate reaction [to the possible loss of Phobos-Grunt] was I'd do anything to repeat it," says Aleksandr Zakharov, a leading specialist at the Moscow-based Space Research Institute, IKI, which develops and oversees the nation's planetary exploration projects. 

	"There are many advantages in this: we have all the blueprints and don't need to develop anything from scratch, we just have to re-build the vehicle, obviously taking into consideration all the mistakes…"


is he happy about this? It's like they want to kill the space program

	...The relative motion of Earth and Mars brings the two planets into the vicinity of each other in slightly more than two years.

	Dr Zakharov ruled out the possibility of re-building the spacecraft by the next available window for missions to Mars in 2013. However, the next opportunity in 2016 could be met easily, given proper funding, he says.


but they didn't get the proper funding


	"However at this point, this is just an emotional calling, which is not based on any (funding or decision)," Dr Zakharov conceded.

	In the meantime, another option for jump-starting the Russian exploration of Mars had emerged just weeks before the ill-fated launch of Phobos-Grunt.

	Facing financial problems, the European Space Agency (Esa) asked Russia to provide a powerful Proton rocket to launch the first phase of a joint US-European ExoMars project in 2016. 


and some of the scientists on this got transfered to Exo Mars


looks like ExoMars won't recover anything to bring back

Wikipedia says will "demonstrate the technologies for a future Mars sample return mission."

don't think it's going to phobos either?

not sure why they would want ExoMars but not the Phobos Grunt project

I guess if it was sabotaged it would look wierd if it were sabotaged again


	..."I think it could be a good opportunity for the Russians to start again, rapidly on a new mission, less ambitious than Phobos-Grunt, but in a joint mission with a mutual benefit," Rocard concluded.


"less ambitious"


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/russia-gives-up-on-failed-mars-probe-braces-for-crash-landing-next-month/2011/12/10/gIQANaQalO_story.html
	Russia gives up on failed Mars probe, braces for crash landing next month 

	By Brian Vastag December 10, 2011

	...The creation of the task force “confirmed that the agency had exhausted all hopes for establishing control over the mission,” said Anatoly Zak, a Russian space journalist and historian who operates the news site Russian­SpaceWeb.com. Reentry of the spacecraft now appears “inevitable,” he said.

	...“Despite people being at work 24/7 since the launch, all these attempts have not yield[ed] any satisfactory results,” wrote Lev Zelenyi, director of the Space Research Institute in Moscow. The institute, which planned the long-anticipated mission, is part of the Russian Academy of Sciences.

	Zelenyi added, “We are working nevertheless on the issue of re-entry and [the] probability of where and which fragments may hit the ground (if any).” 

	...In the works for two decades, the $165 million mission was designed to vault Russia into the elite ranks of planetary explorers after a 15-year fallow period.

	“Getting back into interplanetary exploration has been a real passion, a real obsession for them,” said former NASA engineer James Oberg, now an independent space analyst. “It’s been 25 years since they’ve had an interplanetary mission succeed.”


	...Frantic last-minute repairs to the probe’s electrical system may have contributed to the failure, Zak said, citing sources at NPO Lavochkin, the Russian company that built Phobos-Grunt.

	“There was a serious cable connection problem discovered in Baikonur” just weeks before launch, Zak said. “They had to disconnect the cables, and these were hard connections. They had to cut them and wire them to a different route.” He said engineers re-soldered electrical connections even though the craft was fueled with highly flammable hydrazine. 


one of a few explanations for the failure


	...Russia space watchers say the mission was set up for failure.

	“This project is overly ambitious, it’s overloaded with stuff, and it’s mismanaged,” Zak said. “The Chinese spacecraft was added at the last minute. That required a complete redesign, it complicated the spacecraft, and made it heavier and much harder to control.”

	Louis Friedman, former director of the U.S.-based Planetary Society, which flew a small experiment on Phobos-Grunt, called the spacecraft a “kludge,” with extra instruments added late in the design process.

	To push this extra weight all the way to Mars, Russian engineers came up with a fast, cheap solution; they added an extra doughnut-shaped fuel tank.

	“Instead of redesigning the whole thing, they did it the Russian way and just strapped on some more tanks,” Oberg said.

	But the booster rocket fueled by those tanks never fired.


	...Russia’s space industry has suffered a huge “brain drain” in recent decades, Zak said. Low wages and the lack of opportunities to design new missions sent many engineers packing for the United States and Europe.

	“They have people working who are 70 and people who are 25,” Zak said. “They have this lost generation of space workers.”

	Reuters reported that of 250,000 Russian space workers, 90 percent are older than 60 or younger than 30.

	Russia’s last attempt to reach the Red Planet, in 1996, ended ignominiously when a booster rocket failed and crashed back to Earth. 


	...The Russians may have another chance at Mars in 2016. That’s when ESA and NASA plan to launch an orbiter to study how Mars lost most of its once-thick atmosphere. Earlier this year, NASA said it could no longer afford the necessary rocket. That leaves an opening for Russia to join.

	During a meeting Wednesday in Paris, Roscosmos representatives agreed in principle to provide the launch rocket, said Franco Bonacina, an ESA spokesman.

	“Russia will then have a lot of say in the mission,” Zak said. “Without them, now it looks like the mission collapses like a house of cards.” 
