http://www.parabolicarc.com/2017/02/01/russian-space-industry-tumbles-kremlin-steps/
	“Yesterday (on Monday) I signed instructions to Roscosmos to scrutinize all industrial enterprises crucial to ensuring the flawless performance of space rockets, engines, various components and parts, control systems and devices that are expected to stay in orbit long and show impeccable performance,” Rogozin said, according to Tass.

	Oh, good. That should solve the problem. Theoretically, anyway.

	But, one might be tempted to ask, shouldn’t Roscosmos be doing that anyway? Why did you have to issue an order for that to happen? Especially after six years of repeated launch failures caused by poor control?

	Apparently, nobody from Tass asked these questions. Or, if they did, they didn’t get any answers.

	In fairness, Roscosmos hasn’t exactly been doing nothing since the Proton was grounded nearly eight months ago. So, the order might only be an expansion of on-going review work.

	Roscosmos recalled all of Proton’s second and third stage engines manufactured by Voronezh.  Three boosters were taken apart and their engines replaced.

	And engineers seem to have discovered the source of the problem. The solder on the engines did not meet technical requirement. But, get this: the solder was actually more expensive than the material it replaced. Well, the supplier made out pretty well.

	Rogozin told Tass the problem lay in confusion over technical documentation. That’s very strange given that Voronezh has been churning out Proton and Soyuz engines for many, many years. Decades, actually. Both boosters were developed in the 1960’s. So, why should anyone confused over documentation? Were there new, inexperienced employees on the job?

	Once again, Tass doesn’t come through with any answers.

	...If restructuring the entire industry was not difficult enough, Komarov has had to deal with an economy struggling under low oil prices and Western sanctions imposed over Russia’s military incursion into Ukraine. Roscosmos has been forced to repeatedly trim back its long-range plans for space exploration.

	Given the generally closed nature of the Russian government, it’s difficult to know exactly just how far Komarov’s reorganization has progressed, and whether the quality control problems are being properly addressed. Will things begin to get better? Or will we continue to see a string of failures, with Rogozin issuing orders when things get really bad?

	The future will tell.



https://themoscowtimes.com/articles/turf-war-seen-at-heart-of-russian-space-industry-shake-up-43160
	An ambitious drive by a friend of President Vladimir Putin’s to take control of Russia’s defense industry may be behind a shock announcement this week that Russia would merge its federal space agency with a major industry group, analysts said.

	Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev took industry observers by surprise on Wednesday night with the announcement that the United Rocket and Space Corporation (URSC), a state corporation that manufactures space equipment, would be merged with Roscosmos, the federal agency that dictates and enacts space policies.

	But while the new agency will also be called Roscosmos, it will be headed not by aerospace veteran and Roscosmos chief Oleg Ostapenko, but by URSC chief Igor Komarov, whose last job was in the commercial sector as the head of Russia’s largest carmaker, AvtoVAZ.

	Komarov’s new job title, analysts said, points toward one man — Sergei Chemezov, head of the state defense behemoth Rostec, which until last year owned the AvtoVAZ brand and still retains a significant share in the company.

	Komarov’s move, and Roscosmos’ liquidation, bear close similarities to the unexpected appointment of a Rostec loyalist to head up major aeronautics company United Aircraft Corporation chief just last week, a move that also sent shock waves across the air and space industry.

	Chemezov, formerly Putin’s mentor during their time together in the KGB, appears to be snapping up market share in a push that, analysts said, is likely to put profit over science.

	...However, Karash of the Academy of Cosmonautics said that “space science programs will most likely just remain at the ‘propaganda’ level, with just enough funding for the state-controlled media to create an impression that Russian space science is still alive.”

	Oberg argues that “the West should derive no satisfaction from the difficulties that the Russian space program still struggles with. Not only are our major programs intertwined through mutual dependency, but the near-total absence of Russian scientific space missions is a loss to world science.”


wierd article
