https://web.archive.org/web/20110113015104/http://www.cosmicevolution.net/

I guess this was his homepage at one point

------

https://blog.pregistry.com/author/davidw/page/3/


writes a lot on human pregnancy?


------


http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/crux/2014/09/08/where-build-off-world-colonies/
	Forget Mars. Here’s Where We Should Build Our First Off-World Colonies

	The collective space vision of all the world’s countries at the moment seems to be Mars, Mars, Mars. The U.S. has two operational rovers on the planet; a NASA probe called MAVEN and an Indian Mars orbiter will both arrive in Mars orbit later this month; and European, Chinese and additional NASA missions are in the works. Meanwhile Mars One is in the process of selecting candidates for the first-ever Martian colony, and NASA’s heavy launch vehicle is being developed specifically to launch human missions into deep space, with Mars as one of the prime potential destinations.

	But is the Red Planet really the best target for a human colony, or should we look somewhere else? Should we pick a world closer to Earth, namely the moon? Or a world with a surface gravity close to Earth’s, namely Venus?



https://louisdfriedman.files.wordpress.com/2014/08/warmflash-interview.pdf

generally down on Mars colonization


------


https://www.google.com/search?q=%22David+Warmflash%22+site%3Abeforeitsnews.com&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8


some of Warmflash's blog posts were hosted on Russian propaganda sites


------

https://astronomy.knoji.com/the-european-space-agency-beagle-2-and-the-search-for-life-and-organic-molecules-on-mars/
	...Currently, only the United States, Russia, and China have launched humans into space and, if humanity survives the next few decades, it is likely that these as well as other nations would together contribute to the first human missions to Mars.


a bit dark?


------


https://www.asm.org/index.php/bacteriofiles/item/2591-bacteriofiles-micro-edition-100-protozoa-prevent-pathogen-proliferation
	...However, not everyone is enthusiastic about the experiment, including Catharine Conley, who is the NASA Planetary Protection Officer. “There is considerable discomfort within the planetary protection community regarding the advisability of sending living Earth organisms to Mars, even though under nominal conditions they would never reach the Martian surface,” she says.

some scientists worried Warflash's stupid bacteria frizbee would mess everything up

although article was written by DiGregorio


------

http://www.dslreports.com/forum/r1193569-Scientists-Say-Mars-Viking-Mission-Found-Life

Warmflash writes on that Levin expeiriment for life on Mars a lot


------


http://www.visionlearning.com/blog/2015/09/28/water-mars-sounds-good-life-forms-problem/
	September 28, 2015
	Water on Mars: Astrobiology Implications Must be Taken with a Grain of Salt

	by David Warmflash

	...But when it comes to finding life forms in Martian surface brine, there’s a caveat.

	The concentration of perchlorate is actually too high for life. H. marismortui is an example of how an organism can thrive in the 33.7 percent salinity of the Dead Sea and our understanding of biochemistry dovetails with this. Rather than being like the Dead Sea, the brine that we envision now on Mars would be similar to a briny spot in Antarctica, called Don Juan Pond, where the salinity is a whopping 44 percent, due to high levels of calcium chloride. Even H. marismortui, and unfortunately, any similar Mars organism that we could imagine, would not survive in that.

	...This means that any organic compounds, whether from comets, or even microorganisms, don’t last very long. They are converted into cleaning agents. And so, while the new discovery must be taken with a grain, or more likely a ton, of salt, when it comes to astrobiology, the discovery also clinches the case that perchlorate is ubiquitous on Mars. This means, in turn, that initial reports of the lack of organic material on Mars were greatly exaggerated. And that can be vital to the quest for Martian life.


------


http://www.visionlearning.com/blog/2017/03/28/human-mars-expeditions-psychiatric-emergency-significant-danger/
	March 28, 2017
	Human Mars Expeditions: Psychiatric Emergency Could be a Significant Danger

	by David Warmflash

	At center stage in any type of space colony is the issue of the human mind. Who is most likely to remain mentally healthy and for how long and what stressors, or series of events, can make somebody break down, becoming depressed or psychotic?

	...During an Antarctic expedition back in 1913, for instance, Australian radio operator Sidney Jeffries developed a psychotic disorder. Notably, he displayed paranoid beliefs, declaring that all of this fellow explorers were plotting to murder him. The commander of the expedition, Douglas Mawson, quickly recognized the problem and relieved Jeffries of his duties and happened more than a century ago, but the case illustrates the danger, as do many other examples. There have been cases of depression and psychosis on submarines, and other psychiatric developments in Antarctica, plus anxiety, depression, and adjustment disorders have been reported in astronauts visiting the International Space Station (ISS).

	...But things went terribly wrong in Arizona. The concrete was not covered properly, so it started absorbing oxygen. It thus became necessary to inject oxygen from the outside, but this would not be an option on Mars. Perhaps even worse, the team of eight biospherites split up into two cliques. In the end, though, no one died in Biosphere 2. But it does raise important concerns for how we must account for our humanity, with all of its quirks and shortcomings, when exploring the universe.


------


http://www.visionlearning.com/blog/2017/03/14/colonization-venusian-clouds-surfacism-clouding-judgement/
	March 14, 2017
	Colonization of the Venusian Clouds: Is ‘Surfacism’ Clouding Our Judgement?

	by David Warmflash


	...Mars has other problems. The regolith –the dirt that covers the Martian surface– contains high concentrations of perchlorate salts, which will be toxic to humans and plants if we don’t filter them out. The low gravity and the thin atmosphere advantageous as they make it easy to get spaceships up and down between the surface and space. But while the atmosphere is too thin to provide any useful air pressure on the human body, it is just thick enough to lift dust to mess up equipment and there are even dust storms.


	...Even if the travel time doesn’t shorten, Venus offers another perk. It’s closer to Earth than Mars, so even with chemical propulsion, one can get there in 100 days or so, as opposed to 150-300 days to get to Mars. Finally, being closer to the Sun, Venus would offer colonists more solar energy compared with Mars. Considering these things, our sister planet may start to look more palatable, so long as we can engineer corrosion-proof buoyant cities, work out a way for spaceships to land on such floating structures, and finally, perhaps most important, if we could just get over our ‘surfacist’ mentality.


very likely knows he's lying--you would have a very tough time mining minerals to expand the colony, everything you send down would melt, and would have to lift-off with rocket fuel to 50KM in the first place...


https://www.quora.com/Why-are-we-thinking-about-a-Mars-colony-when-a-Venus-colony-would-be-more-technically-feasible-It-seems-that-radiation-shielded-floating-colonies-could-be-assembled-on-Venus-with-plastic-film-and-aluminum-wire-bags-filled-with-breathable-air

actually even more of a problem of mining water, oxygen, unless want to make it a big biodome floating in venus or something

could send down a balloon to mine surface with tank of commpressed air or something, so long as it doesn't melt (actually would that work at that pressure? would collapse I think)


so might be that Warmflash is coming off as ridicuously wrong here

a small comfort: if Warmflash is part of an alien invasion, at least they're incompetent



https://www.quora.com/Why-are-we-thinking-about-a-Mars-colony-when-a-Venus-colony-would-be-more-technically-feasible-It-seems-that-radiation-shielded-floating-colonies-could-be-assembled-on-Venus-with-plastic-film-and-aluminum-wire-bags-filled-with-breathable-air
	We have already sent balloons to the upper Venus atmosphere, Venera balloons from Russia. Russia actually had ideas for Venus cloud colonies back in 1970s


interesting--did Russia decide on Venus over Mars?


https://www.quora.com/How-feasible-is-it-to-mine-Venus-with-machines-made-to-survive-its-ground-temperatures
	It’s hard to see how we would build devices that could function on Venus. The few probes that have landed on the surface and beamed back pictures survived only minutes or hours, and they were designed specifically to withstand the conditions on the surface.

	It would take an entirely new branch of materials engineering to design machines (and the electronics to control them) that could survive the temperature, pressure, and chemical environment on Venus for reasonable lengths of time.


mining doesn't sound feasible


------

http://www.visionlearning.com/blog/2016/12/21/hazards-mars-exploration-demand-top-notch-wilderness-medicine-capability/
	December 21, 2016
	Hazards of Mars exploration demand top-notch wilderness medicine capabilities

	by David Warmflash

	...No spoilers if you haven’t seen the episode, but there are a lot of medical inconsistencies based on what explorers do today and would likely do in the future. Future explorers will have to be prepared with the best portable medical equipment of the era. That still may not be enough and one thing is clear both in reality and in National Geographic’s fictional scenario: settling Mars is going to be dangerous, possibly on the same level as early settlement of the Americas 500 years ago. And at least the settlers in America did not have to live underground.


he keeps pointing out the "live underground" thing


you'd think they could just build a part with windows...


------


https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/guest-blog/low-gravity-olympics-how-would-gymnastics-look-in-a-future-lunar-colony/
	Low-Gravity Olympics: How Would Gymnastics Look in a Future Lunar Colony?

	By David Warmflash on August 14, 2012


always pointing out problems with a Mars colony, but writes about "oh look at all the cool things to do on a lunar colony"


------

https://www.roundabouttheatre.org/Roundabout/media/Roundabout/PDF/Annual_Reports/Annual-Report-2015-2016_Supporters.pdf


this something warmflash supports? along with Alec Baldwin

dunno if this means anything


------

https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2016/07/22/transhumanism-2016-presidential-race/

warmflash likes "transhumanism," promoting Zoltan Istvan who at least got some attention from Russian propaganda sites

interviewed Istvan


------

https://www.quora.com/Who-are-the-best-people-who-talk-about-extraterrestrial-life-and-space-colonization-to-follow-on-Twitter#!n=12


This sketchy guy "Jiri Roznovjak" likes Warmflash

his answer to the question seems bad


https://aeon.co/users/jiri-roznovjak
	Is nature sacred?

	Nature is an interesting experiment that is happening on Earth and that is probably not very common in the Universe. It gave rise to us. I’m not sure what we’ll give rise to, but in any case it’ll be very interesting to watch.

	I don’t really think there’s any intrinsic value to nature, however. It feels like nature is sacred, because it’s sort of like our mother, and we like to get emotional about things, but I can’t find any logical argument as to why nature should be sacred any more than it is useful to humans.

	Right now we are dependent on nature and we’ll probably be for a while. But assuming we lose a part of nature that we aren’t and won’t be dependent on (both for resources and for science), and assuming it will not impact those parts of nature we need, nothing will really happen, besides us getting emotionally hurt.

	Now, if we want to be really nice, even though it’s not necessary, we could try to ensure that nature will have the opportinity to continue. What I mean by that is that if we’ll be stupid enough to destroy ourselves, we should try not to take the whole nature with us. Maybe allowing another intelligent species in the furute to arise.


an interesting perspective

can see why he likes Warmflash

------


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2017/04/28/alone-not-hasnt-anyone-dropped-earth-visit/#.WQMvYADuCCQ.twitter
	Are we alone? If not, why hasn’t anyone dropped by Earth for a visit?
	David Warmflash 

	This consideration revives Frank’s suggestion that civilizations might not last long enough to colonize star system after star system, meaning that L is a very small number. But it doesn’t make sense that every civilization would not last. A certain number–a fraction that we have no way of knowing right now — must make it through the critical period that we’re living in right now. The late astronomer Carl Sagan called it “technological adolescence”. Either we’ll go extinct — by succumbing to a natural disaster that our technology is not advanced enough to stop (like an immense volcanic eruption), or by destroying ourselves with technology that we’re using irresponsibly (like making nuclear weapons) because our social development is too far behind our technology– or we’ll survive into an age of more advanced technology and greater wisdom.

	If only a fraction of civilizations survive technological adolescence, the Fermi Paradox still holds. This, in turn, raises another possibility, one that is just as simple as the “we are alone” solution, but it’s a lot more appealing. ETs could be aware of us and avoiding us on purpose. Perhaps, they are waiting to initiate a first contact until they think we are ready.


"ready" as in "dead"


	If ETs exist, why have they not made contact with us?

	Surely, you can think of many possible reasons why we are not ready, but if our behavior is shameful perhaps the ETs recall a time in their own history when they were just as bad and their existence hung in the balance. They could be waiting for us to end war and religion and create a planetary government, or they might prefer to avoid interacting with us until that they have to, because we’re about to discover something that will lead us to them.


life on Mars? idk article is weird


	...Whether they await ethical or political developments, or a technological threshold, or both, the idea of patient ETs suggests it could be a long time before humanity experiences its first contact. On the other hand, particularly if it depends on a technological threshold, the first contact with another civilization could be right around the corner. Either way, it seems like a much more reasonable resolution to the Fermi Paradox than the idea that we’re truly, completely alone.


apparently Warmflash thinks we have to get rid of religion before the aliens accept us


is Warmflash insane? seems to be awkward, creepy, racist, evil, otherwise smart, is a scientist I guess

------


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2015/07/22/a-rabbi-and-an-alien-walk-into-a-bar-what-happens-when-religious-leaders-meet-extraterrestrials/
	A rabbi and an alien walk into a bar: What happens when religious leaders meet extraterrestrials?
	David Warmflash 

	In the 1997 film Contact, based on Sagan’s 1985 novel about humanity getting its first proof of an extraterrestrial civilization in the form of an interstellar radio transmission, one of the characters says this:

		My coalition’s phone lines have been flooded with calls from concerned families, wondering if this message signifies the end of the world or the advent of the rapture. We feel that U.S. policy in this matter wants to be extremely conservative – if there’s any chance of danger or threat to our way of life perhaps the message and its contents should simply be disregarded.

	Portrayed by actor Rob Lowe, the character is a social conservative political leader. The contrast with the enthusiastic scientist protagonist, Ellie Arroway, played by Jodie Foster, could be a good model for what might really happen if we do discover real evidence of an ET civilization during an era when our own civilization still looks something like it does today.


the movie where the aliens are the good guys and want to "unlock our potential" or something faggy like that

I liked Independance Day better

if Warmflash actually were working for aliens, pretty sure they are not here to help us...


	Just considering the numbers should make anyone think that only extreme human arrogance, bordering on psychosis, could lead anyone to think seriously that we are the only creatures in the universe that got to this point, and that nobody else is ahead of us. But we’re isolated on our world, involved in our local problems, and, so far, nobody is talking to us.

	That perspective almost automatically brings up the topic of religion, and organized religion in particular, since the latter has set stories and explanations regarding how we got here and our place in the cosmos. Needless to say, Carl Sagan realized that the moment of first contact would put many aspects of society on a collision course with the future, but the religious component of society in particular will probably struggle with it, perhaps even put up resistance.


Warmflash seems to think those pesky religious people are getting in the way of his ET pow-wow


	...Hollywood versus reality

	Before considering how Earth’s organized religions are likely to face an era characterized by humans knowing about an extraterrestrial civilization, we should outline what kind of contact and knowledge it’s likely to be. Unlike in Steven Spielberg’s wonderful, memorable film ET: The Extraterrestrial, or in Star Trek: First Contact, humanity’s real first contact is probably not going to be a physical contact with extraterrestrials landing here, holding up a finger with a red light, or a full hand in the Vulcan salute. Extraterrestrials are not going to invade our planet either, like in movies from the 1940s and ’50s.


invading a planet would probably be too risky. If it doesn't work then you unite the being on that planet and get them all pissed off at you, meanwhile the conflict would probably give them a tech boost if any military tech left behind.

A better way to invade a planet would be to get them to destroy themselves--get them to invent nukes, biological weapons, then get them really angry at each other and try to spark wars that wipe out most or all of them.

which coincidentally happens to be what the KGB is doing.


	...Moreover, if sequences within the Genetic Code really are of artificial origin, it would suggest that such a seeding event billions of years ago was carried out purposefully by some intelligent race, rather than by accident due to meteoroids carrying the life forms after being catapulted into space by an impact event at the planet of origin. This scenario may prove to be far fetched, but should it turn out to be true it does not mean that our DNA would carry a specific message for us to read, telling us about the beings who seeded Earth. We would still have an enormous mystery on our hands.


Does Warmflash believe this?


	...Given this, it’s fairly reasonable to predict that the leaders of the world’s big religions, such as Islam, Christianity, Hinduism and Judaism, might be suspicious at best and might get extremely defensive and possibly attempt to place roadblocks against SETI activities.


I guess using the aliens thing as a prop to attack religion?


	...Religious Jews and certain Christians may also be preparing to adapt to a time when humans know of extraterrestrial beings. Anybody growing up in a Jewish culture knows that rabbis who study the Talmud are notoriously talented at making Judaism and Jewish life compatible with whatever reality science introduces to the world. As surely as the Earth makes an orbit around the Sun each year, rabbis will have a field day when the existence of an ET civilization is discovered and the details of the civilization explained to the world. They’ll hone in on some religious rule and debate about how it should be observed, based on some examples from a Talmudic passage that somehow parallel the new discovery.


weird


see this a lot in Russian propaganda, basically "blame the jews"


------


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2015/10/19/tnts-the-last-ship-shadows-ebolavirus-crisis-how-realistic-is-a-contagious-vaccine/


Warmflash writing about contagious vaccines

conspiritard's worst nightmare


------


http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/crux/2014/08/08/should-patients-be-given-experimental-ebola-drugs/
	Should Patients Be Given Experimental Ebola Drugs?
	By David Warmflash | August 8, 2014 3:07 pm 


	...But there is one thing that Ebola virus disease certainly does have in common with the fictional pandemic of The Last Ship: the potential to cause panic on a planetary scale. In the words of Admiral Konstantin Nicolayevitch Ruskov, the series villain, “The fear spread[s] even quicker than the virus itself.” And based on a series of headlines, such as “Ebola is already in the US”, followed by a string of tweets from Donald Trump saying that people who travel to Ebola-endemic areas to help must “suffer the consequences” to prevent “spread inside our borders”, Ebola panic is already mounting. In terms of human behavior, the science fiction writers have scored a bull’s eye.


huh


	...And it’s an open question whether, if supplies come through, treating infected Africans with experimental drugs is a good idea. Many in the health community endorse the treatment of the two infected Americans with ZMapp. But African patients may be wary of an experimental treatment, and furthermore the drugs could have unknown harms. “As doctors, trying an untested drug on patients is a very difficult choice since our first priority is to do no harm,” NGO Doctors Without Borders said in a statement earlier this week.


what?


------


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2016/09/06/genome-editing-national-security-threat/
	Genome editing: Is it a national security threat?

	David Warmflash | September 6, 2016

	The exponentiating capabilities and applications of CRISPR genome editing make for a strange dichotomy. On one hand, earlier this year, the director of U.S. national intelligence, James Clapper, named genome editing as a potential weapon of mass destruction (WMD), alongside things like North Korean nuclear weapons, Russian cruise missiles with new capabilities, and undeclared chemical weapons in Syria. In the annual worldwide threat assessment report the concern reads like this:

		Research in genome editing conducted by countries with different regulatory or ethical standards than those of Western countries probably increases the risk of the creation of potentially harmful biological agents or products. Given the broad distribution, low cost, and accelerated pace of development of this dual-use technology, its deliberate or unintentional misuse might lead to far-reaching economic and national security implications.

	On the other hand, you can purchase a do-it-yourself CRISPR kit for $100 or so. Some CRISPR kits actually are designed for elementary school children, and that’s not something that we can ever expect of nuclear materials or nerve gas. What’s happening? Is genome editing really so powerful that it could do major damage, either accidentally, or through foul play? Or is the government merely being prudently cautious, making a profound statement to promote discussion about what the appropriate regulations should be?

	...Can you build a pathogen using CRISPR?

	This possibility may be what underlies the growing concern that genome editing could be used in bioterrorism. That is reason for biologists to convene and determine clearly what an unsuspecting person, or someone with nasty plans, could do with a do-it-yourself CRISPR kit. But for someone without expertise, the answer to the question of whether you could build pathogen—for instance convert a common, harmless bacterium into anthrax, or build a smallpox virus from scratch—it’s probably that it’s extremely unlikely.


------

http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/crux/2016/05/18/the-doomsday-clock-in-fiction-and-reality/?webSyncID=a3bd8dd6-9e86-e183-51d1-9abc76d118ec&sessionGUID=085aded8-63ee-b7be-6dd1-b0c7d5768847


I can only assume warmflash wants to accelerate Doomsday for his Martian Satanist masters


------


http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/crux/2016/12/13/human-reproductive-technology-advances/?webSyncID=a3bd8dd6-9e86-e183-51d1-9abc76d118ec&sessionGUID=085aded8-63ee-b7be-6dd1-b0c7d5768847
	A Brave New World of Human Reproduction
	By David Warmflash | December 13, 2016 1:37 pm 


	...Depending on how ethical discussions develop in the years to come, it’s plausible that somebody, somewhere will push human embryo development to extend time limits outside the womb. If the lung assist technology, plus other devices, also push the survival to increasingly younger gestational ages, the two limits will eventually meet. Development from egg to mature infant would feasibly be possible outside a natural womb.

	We could imagine a future in which carrying a fetus inside your body will go the way of driving cars — a retro practice. Women who cannot carry a pregnancy for physical reasons and male gay couples could also benefit.

	...There’s an important caveat: in the University of Bath experiments, the mechanism for the reprograming of sperm by post-mitotic eggs was epigenetic; the coiling DNA strands was switched from wrapping around one type of protein to another. As with SCNT, any type of cloning is going to involve messing around in some way with the epigenetics of the needed cells and the resulting child.


creepy


Does he act creepy on purpose or does he actually believe this shit? does he know how to write any other way? think this way?


also iirc things happen between mother and child when the child is in her womb which are important, and also at birth, so this is probably a bad idea and dumb


maybe he wants to to genetically engineer CRISPR super-soldiers in an artificial iron womb


dude is like a real-life movie villain


------


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2017/05/12/creating-superwoman-man-benefits-human-enhancement/#.WRWx7rFlFLM.twitter
	Creating Superwoman (and man): Who benefits from human enhancement?
	David Warmflash

	...Using genetic modification, nanotechnology, bionics, reconstructive surgery, hormones, drugs or any combination of these approaches, real-life human enhancement is looking ever more achievable. 

	...the potential for emerging, enhancement-relevant innovations to change humanity is pretty big, and this means that all of the discussion and debate is a good thing. We should embrace that, along with the emerging technology itself as we move forward, but never forget that it is already helping those seeking not to be enhanced, but merely restored. 


sounds super-stoked about replacing people with genetically "enhanced" cyborgs


------


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2017/02/13/our-cyborg-future-how-the-wealthy-will-reshape-our-humanness/
	As AI advances, machine technology is expected to merge with humans, as it has already begun to do. Today, it’s routine for people to have implanted drug infusion pumps, cardiac pacemakers, and other devices, and the day is coming when artificial organs–machine hearts, livers, and kidneys–will not only be available, but preferable to a donor organ. Along with that will come true, fully-functinal and cosmetically appealing bionic limbs, eyes, and ears, and brain implants and interfaces could be possible to give people a boost in memory capacity and even information. Imagine having the Internet connected directly to your brain.

	The options for human enhancement seem endless and Hebrew University’s Professor Yuval Noah Harari believes that many humans will eventually take on new forms.

	...But Harari is right that we’re moving into an age of human enhancement, and he’s fairly hopeful that there will be positive consequences. In particular, he expects the cyborgazation of humans to end religion. That may be a tall order at Hebrew University, located in Jerusalem, where people still come from all over the planet to pray to a stone wall, but Harari is thinking in terms of centuries. In Western Europe, North America, and other developed countries, people are dropping organized religion. The new religion, Harari observes, is technology and a blind belief in the infinite power of innovation.


OK he has to be doing this on purpose

not sure exactly what the point of this is though, don't see his writings called out in other outlets for him to play the villain. Like he could be a foil on Hannity or something.

maybe they would want a community of people to actually believe this so they could recruit from them or something?


------


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2015/01/06/how-to-spot-a-science-ideologue/
	How to spot a science ideologue
	David Warmflash | January 6, 2015 | Genetic Literacy Project 

	Where science trumps ideology…that’s the motto of the Genetic Literacy Project. It’s the perspective that we GLP writers are implored to take on every post, and by highlighting the science we try to make society as a whole evaluate genetics issue objectively. If people would think and vote about issues of science based on science, regardless of their ideology, things would work better.

	This approach applies to genetic engineering and agricultural issues as much as it does to science education related to the evolution and origins of life, and to the immense ages of planets, stars, and the universe itself. It applies similarly to the science of climate change, vaccines, nuclear power, abortion, human embryonic technologies, and even seemingly minor issues, like male circumcision. But how easy will it be for science to triumph?

	...Nonetheless, history suggests that shaking off the beliefs often can take a great deal of time, and a study published last year tells us pretty much the same thing. Conducted at the University of Alabama, the investigation examined students’ acceptance of evolution. Education was found to be a factor with science majors showing a higher rate of accepting evolution and rejecting creationism compared with non-science majors. However, students’ religiosity was shown to have a greater effect, particularly for those learning about evolution in college classes. Specifically, only students identifying as not religious tended to accept evolution more and more as they learned about it more and more in college.

	In contrast, students with a strong adherence to an organized religion (in most cases Christianity, due to the demographics) tended to maintain any rejection they held for evolution, and to hold strongly to creationist beliefs, even after being taught about evolution at the college level, and even upon accepting that the scientific community is not divided over evolution.


meanwhile, doesn't Russian propaganda try to tie creationism to Christianity?


	...Whenever religion and evolution are discussed together, somebody always points out that there are religious people who work in science and reconcile evolution with the belief system underlying their religious practice. NIH director Francis Collins is the person they mention the most, because his genomics work of course relates intimately to evolution, and yet he is an evangelical Christian. Pope Francis is now too, because two months ago he said:

		Evolution in nature is not inconsistent with the notion of creation, because evolution requires the creation of beings that evolve.

	While the Pope’s words initially may sound progressive and open minded, they immediately came under harsh criticism as an example of religious double think, and the criticism can be applied similarly to the other Francis.


reminds me of Jihad Watch saying "ISIS is the true Islam!"

	...What does it mean, for instance, when the CEO of a tobacco company admits that he agrees that smoking causes lung cancer, emphysema and hundreds of other diseases? Does it mean he’s ready to stop manufacturing a delivery system for poison, or is it simply a strategic decision to admit what most people already have understood for decades?


trying to say its not enough for Christians to accept evolution, they must erase religion from schools


	...When confronted with public statements along the lines of “I believe this, but I also believe the opposite, because I found a way to reconcile the two ideas”, we should challenge the person who says it. We should do this, because the implication of the University of Alabama study is that any kind of ideology, not just organized religion, can be really, really challenging to trump, even using the best tool we have: education.


------

https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2017/06/06/bell-curve-redux-science-intelligence-taboo-research/
	Bell Curve redux: Is the science of intelligence too taboo to research?
	David Warmflash | June 6, 2017 |

	...How we as a society will handle this influx of genetic information is hard to predict. Over the past centuries, humans have come to accept a range of initially uncomfortable realities — including the non-centrality of our location in the cosmos, evolution of our species from other species and ultimately from non-living chemistry. But we need look no further than the backlash from a recent podcast interview by neuroscientist Sam Harris of political scientist Charles Murray, who authored the controversial 1994 book The Bell Curve, to question whether our society is ready to weather this  new storm.


"just asking questions"


	Forbidden knowledge

	The current feud is really between Harris and the writers and editors of an article that appeared in Vox last week in response to the interview with Murray, which tool place in April. Yet it illustrates the emotion found in the wider debates that have taken place between Murray and his critics over the past 23 years. The podcast interview happened about a month after Murray was attacked, verbally and physically, on the campus of Middlebury College, in Vermont, where he was scheduled to give a talk. Instigation of the protest started with faculty members who didn’t want Murray to have a podium, but students carried it out, some with signs accusing Murray of advocating eugenics. Along with preventing the talk, the activities culminated with serious injury to Murray’s faculty chaperone — for which the New York Times reported recently dozens of students are now going to be disciplined.


seems like a propaganda technique, "see, people who disagree with me are violent"


	...The strongest support for the Vox complaint is that, at one point, Murray likened his position to that of the educated people in Europe — in the days of Columbus — who believed the Earth was round, and his critics to those who believed it to be flat. If there was any time when Harris could have protested more, this was it. As a scientist, this writer can attest, and surely Harris would agree, that few debates in science are ever that lopsided. In the years following the Bell Curve’s publishing, there have been challenges issued by serious social scientists, contesting various aspects of the  work, including how different factors were weighted in the calculations. At the very least, we can say that these critics are not modern-day flat Earthers.

	...On top of this, Murray and Herrnstein have been criticized for not getting The Bell Curve peer reviewed, which would have been appropriate for this type of book. Not having that makes it all the more difficult for anyone, but especially those with a progressive socio-political perspective, to separate the real science from the policy and political ideas in any book. Such blurred distinctions often lead to accusations that somebody’s science is pseudoscience, but it is important to distinguish pseudoscience from mistakes in methodology, biases, and other problems that can afflict well-intentioned scientists.


covering for Murray


	...It should be possible to accept this idea, as we accept it when it comes to height, athletic ability, risk for specific diseases, and so many other traits. Doing so, whether or not one is convinced by the math of The Bell Curve, Harris has noted that it would be surprising if such a trait were identical between any groups of humans that have been reproductively isolated, including the groupings of that have come to be known as races.


David Warmflash a "race realist"?


	...Second, with the brain-relevant genetic data coming in, there are bound to be surprises. Indeed, we have had some already, such as the finding that Caucasians and Asians have significant amounts of Neanderthal genetic sequences, whereas sub-Saharan Africans have almost none. 


kindof creepy

see the "neanderthal" thing come up sometimes on weird websites


GLP does seem to be racist: https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2016/02/12/can-genes-explain-racial-gender-iq-gaps/


https://twitter.com/GeneticLiteracy/status/870656404742434816
	Genetic Literacy‏ @GeneticLiteracy Jun 2

	DNA from mummies show ancient Egyptians had no African genes http://bit.ly/2qIh6EM  via @sciencemagazine


https://twitter.com/CosmicEvolution/status/901203566597218305
	Dr. David Warmflash‏ @CosmicEvolution

	Dr. David Warmflash Retweeted Genetic Literacy

	Really fascinating. And we're in for a huge public discussion.. #neuroscience #genetics

		Genetic Literacy @GeneticLiteracy
		22 genes linked to increased intelligence


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2017/07/17/unwanted-genes-cant-just-edit-lives/#.WWy1rJpU4vc.twitter
	Unwanted genes: Why can’t we just edit them out of our lives?
	David Warmflash

------


https://blog.pregistry.com/oxytocin/

creepy


https://twitter.com/GeneticLiteracy/status/887722541300813824
	 Dr. David Warmflash Retweeted
	Genetic Literacy‏ @GeneticLiteracy Jul 19

	Are transfusions of ‘young blood’ the answer to longer, healthier lives? http://bit.ly/2tGnlcI  via @TheEconomist


Warmflash a vampire


------


https://twitter.com/CosmicEvolution/status/889392899468566528
	Dr. David Warmflash‏ @CosmicEvolution Jul 24

	Why did I watch that final scene of the latest #OrphanBlack episode just before bed time? Somebody say something to get that off my mind


https://twitter.com/CosmicEvolution/status/899022116267282432
	Dr. David Warmflash‏ @CosmicEvolution Aug 19

	Dr. David Warmflash Retweeted Exploratorium

	Actully, that' not so trivial, if you live on Earth..


https://twitter.com/CosmicEvolution/status/898334031237992451
	Dr. David Warmflash‏ @CosmicEvolution Aug 17

	Moon is much smaller than Sun, but just the right distance to be same size as the Sun in our skies. That's why a total #eclipse is possible



------

https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2016/04/13/matters-sanders-aligns-conservatives-funding-stem-cell-cloning-research/

	...The voting records revealed a surprising lack of daylight between Senator Bernie Sanders and socially conservative Republicans on issues of cloning during the early 2000s. Republican objections to funding cloning were—and still are—due to religious beliefs of conservative Christians that a human being has ‘personhood’ from the time of fertilization. In their minds, doing anything with an embryo other than allowing it to develop in the womb into a person is equivalent to murder. In public policy, this belief has been taken to the point that many social conservatives have objected to federal funding of research on human embryos, and stem cells derived from them, even when the embryos have been created already at fertility clinics and would otherwise be discarded, because they will not be implanted.


creepy


	...For a long time, cloning has featured prominently in science fiction, and that phenomenon continues to this day. In popular culture, cloning generally implies reproductive cloning. That’s the kind of cloning that forms the basis of the hit BBC America sci-fi series Orphan Black that begins airing its 4th season this week. Reproductive cloning is very different from therapeutic cloning and it’s important for the voting public to understand the difference.


why is he always pointing out certain TV shows?


	...And so, Senator Sanders, rather than continuing to demand a political revolution that only a segment of the voting public desires, we urge you to start doing more than merely saying that you support stem cell research. Since the Progressive Era (1890s-1920s), being a progressive has always meant being for economic equality but also for progress in technology. Therefore, show some political courage and do something in the interest of the people, even when doing so may align you with the biotech industry. Start working for a different kind of revolution — a revolution in biomedicine, a revolution in genetics, a revolution in the technology of living things that will be welcomed by everybody and take the state of healthcare on a voyage to the 22nd century.


who does he expect to read things like this?



------


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2016/08/25/chimeric-organ-transplants-science-ethics-growing-human-organs-pigs/
	Chimeric organ transplants: Science and ethics of growing human organs in pigs
	David Warmflash | August 25, 2016 

	...The animals would be sacrificed when the organs are needed. 

	...But people are worried about the ethics of creating a human-porcine chimera. Society is understandably resistant to the idea of pigs with human physical characteristics, such as human-like brains–but researchers are ahead of society on this, and to a large extent so are government regulators.

	...But apes not on the short-list for organ-growing They’re endangered and so human-like that few people in our society would accept the idea of breeding them for eventual sacrifice. Also, ironically, because they’re similar to humans, apes are potential sources of new zoonotic infections; in fact, the leading theory on the origin of HIV is that it was introduced into humans from chimpanzees.


another leading theory is the U.S. government developed it, courtesy of KGB


	...But what would happen in the rest of the pig’s body? If a few human iPSCs were to get into the developing porcine brain, could the brain develop such that it is more conscious than a normal pig brain? Furthermore, could the iPSCs produce human gametes in pig reproductive organs that could then produce a pig-human hybrid in the next generation?


did he choose the picture too?


------

https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/guest-blog/why-science-has-produced-the-most-spiritual-idea-in-history/

	Mostly, the criticism has come from the usual suspects. There have been inane tweets from evolution deniers, saying that Cosmos host astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson needs to read the biblical story of Genesis. There are the “God of the gaps” people; they embrace science programs and have no problem with evolution from early microorganisms to the current tree of life (including humans), but claim a supernatural cause for big questions that we haven’t yet answered: how life emerged from non-living molecules, what caused the Big Bang, and why the expansion of the universe is accelerating. This thinking helps science and religion to co-exist in our culture, but it’s the same thinking that supported the flying chariot of Helios to explain the Sun’s movement, before science discovered gravity and orbits.


doesn't like religion


	...The debate between Soter and Powell continues and is complex, but we can expect that Bruno’s story will foreshadow events in upcoming episodes involving others whose ideas about the cosmos upset the religious establishment. In the centuries after Bruno, the Church and other religious institutions continued to resist new ideas about the planets, stars and life, but eventually most gave in as the population became more educated and as the evidence from science accumulated. Like wolves, bears, and primitive eyes, religion evolves by Darwinian selection, but it’s evolving too slowly to keep up with science.


he could be the bad guy in the next "left behind" novel


	Pointing to a recent Pew poll that showed a dramatic decline in religious affiliation in younger generations, a friend of mine said she thought that people still want their tribal affiliation and spirituality. I’ve heard similar things from humanistic rabbis, who say that it’s a reason why Jews should at least consider dating other Jews, and leaders of other groups have said similar things. It’s about identifying with your people and ancestral culture, they suggest, and it’s about feeling part of something bigger than yourself.

	I totally get the cultural part; it’s nice if you don’t have to teach the mayim dance to a person you’re dating. But if spirituality now means understanding that we are part of something much bigger, I think that science can do a lot more for us in that area. In the second episode of Cosmos, Tyson said, “Accepting our kinship with all life on Earth is not only solid science. In my view, it's also a soaring spiritual experience.” I think so too, but it goes further.


I think he really believes this. Reminds me of atheist propaganda with Soviets.

maybe he thinks he will win people to his point of view with this?


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USSR_anti-religious_campaign_%281921%E2%80%931928%29
	The 12th party congress called for the expansion of anti-religious propaganda and warns against insulting religious feelings by 'primitive methods' and of ridiculing the objects and ceremonies of faith; claiming that these methods strengthen 'religious fanaticism'. Instead it called for more publication of anti-religious literature of a popular scientific nature, and more analysis of the history of religion.

------


https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/guest-blog/why-science-has-produced-the-most-spiritual-idea-in-history/
	By David Warmflash

	...After the first episode of the new Cosmos, some critics took issue with the story of the 16th century monk, Giordano Bruno. Burned at the stake for heresy by the Catholic Church, Bruno is cast into a role similar to that of Hypatia in the original Cosmos series. The last director of the great library of Alexandria in Egypt, Hypatia was a Greek pagan astronomer, mathematician and philosopher, and a staunch defender of science. Chased down by a mob of angry Christians, who then flayed her to death and dragged her naked body through the streets, Hypatia is the quintessential science martyr, and her story in the original Cosmos is chilling.



http://www.smithsonianmag.com/history/hypatia-ancient-alexandrias-great-female-scholar-10942888/
	Hypatia, Ancient Alexandria’s Great Female Scholar

	An avowed paganist in a time of religious strife, Hypatia was also one of the first women to study math, astronomy and philosophy

	By Sarah Zielinski 


this mean anything?


Soviets were strongly atheist, maybe they pointed to Hypatia as an example?


dunno if this means anything, looks like Allan Dulles inventory: 

https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP83B00823R000200070004-2.pdf
	pg 10

	Fleming's - On her Majesty's Secret Service
	Kingsley's - Hypatia
	The Secret Surrender - Proof Copy (one copy)

books he read?

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypatia_%28novel%29

book said to be anti-Catholic, but also "Christian apoloagetic?" says he had dislike of preists and monks

book written 1853

https://books.google.com/books?id=fsZ26vQxJKMC&pg=PA412&lpg=PA412&dq=soviet+propaganda+Hypatia&source=bl&ots=TsINJOMuD8&sig=aDEFEnlO585KqznaHJbcMbwmYuw&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiUvu_7mqHWAhWkzIMKHRr9B2kQ6AEIQjAJ#v=onepage&q=soviet%20propaganda%20Hypatia&f=false

Dawkins likes her?


https://www.marxists.org/history/etol/newspape/atc/540.html
	She is also coeditor of six anthologies, two of which are forthcoming: Colonialism and its Legacies (with Jacob T. Levy, Lexington Press), and The Illusion of Consent: Essays after Carole Pateman (with Daniel O’Neill and Molly Shanley, Pennsylvania State University Press). The feminist journal Hypatia is planning a special issue (edited by philosopher Christina Bellon), commemorating her work, and a festschrift (anthology) will be edited by philosophers Ann Ferguson and Mechthild Nagel.


Mary Beard reference: https://www.marxists.org/archive/beard/woman-force/ch12.htm

August Bebel: https://www.marxists.org/archive/bebel/1879/woman-socialism/ch14.htm

William Morris liked the book? https://www.marxists.org/archive/morris/works/chrono.htm

a reference in this socialist propaganda: https://www.marxists.org/history/usa/pubs/youngworker/v1n8-dec-1922-yw.pdf


https://www.marxists.org/archive/gould/1999/racismandlabor.htm
	The case for socialist brotherhood was put initially by a non-Party member, a remarkable Victorian public servant – Miss Amelia Lambrick – who wrote first under the pseudonym Hypatia. She launched the debate by urging socialists to recognise that they had not yet grasped the full meaning of socialism in Australia.


Hypathia murder story in this propaganda: https://www.marxists.org/history/usa/pubs/dailyworker/1924/v2n184-oct-23-1924-TDW.pdf


more in socialist propaganda targetting feminists: https://www.marxists.org/archive/dunayevskaya/archives/15379.pdf


https://www.marxists.org/archive/starr-mark/worker-looks-history/ch11.htm
	Mark Starr

 	...The powers of reaction, whose chief representative in the period under notice was the Church, fluttered like a moth at the light of the Reawakening; but all in vain. From Hypatia to Ferrer the Church has punished the sin of inquiry whenever she has been powerful enough to do so. The vituperation with which the Evolution Theory was hailed has hardly yet died away; yet, we have in our own times intellectual slovenliness, cloudy mysticism, and attempts to square science with religion, encouraged by the reactionary forces of the capitalist class——once a ruthless opponent of medieval mysticism, but now wishing to preserve things as they are. 


using it as anti-religious prop


Hypatia seems to have propaganda value to them


------


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2017/07/28/views-religion-astrology-new-age-beliefs-hardwired/
	The results showed genetic factors accounting for 40-50 percent of religious belief, as defined by the questions that were asked. Thus, the authors concluded that spirituality and faith are 40-50 percent inherited, meaning if all environmental factors are equal, twins have a 40-50 percent chance of having the same religious beliefs. It sounds impressive, but it’s really not, since it also implies a 50-60 percent chance that twins growing up in the same household will end up very different in terms of religion. One might stick to the beliefs of the particular organized religion of the family while the other grows up as an atheist.


maybe warmflash wants to genetically edit religion from society

	...In turns out that patterns in these genes relate to how susceptible one is to confirmation bias – the tendency to interpret new information (or to remember information) in a way that confirms one’s beliefs. Not only is confirmation bias strong in religious believers and those who believe in astrology, psychics, and other pseudosciences, but it’s also been shown to be largely independent of one’s educational level.


piece also seems like a kind of anti-religion propaganda, say religious belief can be explained away with science.


Warmflash also seems to be churning these out pretty quickly, notice a few typos


	Between the Millennial and Boomer generations is Generation X, whose members, like Millennials, also cling much less to traditional religion compared with older generations. Clearly, the basis of such dramatic changes in belief must be environmental (cultural and society) rather than genetic, and it could be that astrology and other “new age” beliefs are rapidly replacing traditional religious ideas.

	Thus, while susceptibility to bias and “spiritual” thinking (for lack of a better term) seems to be influenced to some extent by biology, the form that it takes might now be transitioning, due to cultural, nurturing factors. Whether it’s a fault, or something not so bad, is something that we can debate in another setting. As for whether it is in ourselves, here we can say that Shakespeare was partly correct. It is partly in ourselves, and partly in our environment.


"cling to religion"

really doesn't seem to like religion

------

http://www.visionlearning.com/en/library/Inside-Science/58/David-Ho/241

some big article on HIV

------

https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2017/09/13/brain-hacking-possible/

David Warmflash admits he is secretly mind controlled

------


http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/NASA-Workshop-Report-Societal-Implications-of-Astrobiology.pdf


once went to a "societal implications of astrobiology" workshop with Joel Achenbach, if that means anything.


wonder if "astrobiology" and its "societal implications" are itself a type of anti-religion propaganda? idea that life seeded by other planets could be a prop for this kind of thing


seems to be a thing he's into:

http://www.nature.com/scientificamerican/journal/v293/n5/full/scientificamerican1105-64.html?foxtrotcallback=true


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2017/07/20/life-originate-earth-becoming-difficult-say-yes/#.WXCogfkXxdk.twitter


If erasing religion a big goal for them, seems like something they are trying.

A lot of their crazy/conspiritard propaganda has religious overtones, and they spend a lot of time trying to politicize religion

so the idea is subvert religion to make it look stupid, then have guys like warmflash point to people who believe this twisted version of religion, or crazy things they try to associate with religion, and say: "see? religion sucks!"


which would mean that the drivel put out by Warmflash is what we're supposed to actually believe...

------


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2015/12/14/orthorexia-nervosa-anti-gmo-activists-shoppers/
	Orthorexia nervosa: Do anti-GMO activists and shoppers have it?
	David Warmflash 

	The idea that strict devotion to “eating pure” can be a feature of mental illness, or even a specific psychiatric diagnosis, has made the news several times over the last year. Coined by Steve Bratman in 1997, the term “orthorexia nervosa” (ON) refers to a preoccupation with eating foods perceived to be healthy, and avoiding foods perceived to be unhealthy, to a psychopathological extreme.

	...While the fate of ON hangs in the balance one thing is clear: the discussions about it are causing symptoms of anxiety among the elites of perceived healthy eating, those who promote exclusive purchase and consumption of foods lacking “chemicals”, gluten, or even a molecule derived from plants produced via transgenic technologies, gene editing, ...or intervention with post-translational processes (all called “GMOs” arbitrarily in public discourse, at the exclusion of certain older technologies whose modifying effect on the genomes of organisms is actually much more dramatic). This suggests that whatever the eventual outcome of the ON diagnosis, at least some fraction of “natural” food advocates, the leaders in particular, may have at least one trait that generally is not considered to be in-line with perfect mental health.

	...And no, despite accusations by the author in the Natural Society article, pharmaceuticals are not likely to play a major role in treatment for ON. Rather psychotherapy is more likely to be the strategy, cognitive behavioral therapy in particular, which seeks to change thought patterns that are built on multiple layers of incorrect assumptions and fallacies. Just like the anti-GMO movement.



https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2017/03/29/gmos-cause-allergies-no-anti-gmo-parent-just-might-contribute/
	Do GMOs cause allergies? No, but being an anti-GMO parent just might contribute
	David Warmflash


	...Many of these high-income parents also share a tendency to purchase organic and non-GMO food — or at least to shop in stores focused on those products.

	So it is, indeed, possible that there is relationship of sorts between food allergies and GMO foods. But if so, it’s the opposite of what critics claim. It’s not the GMOs, but rather one of the behaviors of those who seek to avoid GMOs.


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2017/01/05/real-story-anti-gmo-teen-sensation-rachel-parent-idealist-pawn-natural-marketers/
	Real story of anti-GMO sensation Rachel Parent: Idealist or pawn of ‘natural’ marketers?
	Jon Entine & David Warmflash

	...She’s only 18 years old, but the Canadian high school student has become a canny, international crusader

	...The tone of her voice, smug chuckling, and the shake of her her head were all perfectly timed, sending a message that you’d have to be crazy not to agree with her that GMO corn is something you’d want to avoid. That’s why, she insisted, kids have a “right to know”.

	...whether she will acknowledge it or not she’s a front for the ‘natural products’ anti-GMO movement who have done everything in the power to deny the public a right to know about the very real dangers of many “natural” supplements.


lol they have to be doing this on purpose


	...How ironic that the literal poster child for the anti-GMO ‘right to know’ movement is the daughter of a family who has made millions of dollars selling quack notions to the public about supplements while fighting tooth-and-nail to prevent the public from knowing the truth about the scientifically demonstrated dangers of the mostly useless, unlabeled products that they sell. So much for Rachel and her parents commitment to a ‘right to know.’

	Because of those concerns, the Genetic Literacy Project contacted Parent and her father’s company by email and through her website contact forms with requests for a statement to include in this article. Neither Rachel, nor her father’s business has responded, but we do hope that they’ll send comments now that this article is published.



https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2015/06/17/the-anti-rachel-parent-10-year-old-future-scientist-counters-sea-of-gmo-misinformation/

anti-GMO activists are brainwashing our kids!!!


attacks anti-GMO activists in a way that would energize them



http://globalnews.ca/news/2414720/documents-reveal-canadian-teenager-the-target-of-gmo-lobby/
	Documents reveal Canadian teenager target of GMO lobby


http://beforeitsnews.com/alternative/2015/12/teen-anti-gmo-activist-targeted-3263552.html


http://www.globalresearch.ca/the-crusade-in-favour-of-gmo-falsehoods-and-vilification-will-not-fool-the-public/5515516
	The Crusade in Favour of GMO: Falsehoods and Vilification will not Fool the Public

	...In a recent piece on Huffington Post, Jon Entine followed a similar line of attack to denigrate Rachel Parent, her family’s business interests and the campaign which she heads, Kids Right To Know (KRTK). He calls Parent a well-polished ‘crusader’ against GM food. 


https://www.counterpunch.org/2016/03/18/gmo-and-the-right-to-know-but-whats-hidden-beneath-the-label/
	GMO and the Right to Know: But What’s Hidden Beneath the Label?

	Rachel Parent’s campaign (Kids Right To Know) on GMO labelling has been the subject of a GM industry strategy aimed at countering her message.

------


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2017/06/12/activists-fan-concerns-crispr-off-target-effects-gene-edited-crops-foods-right/
	Focusing his research on the goal of creating crops that can fix nitrogen all on their own–a prospect that would revolutionize farming and go a long way toward making food production more efficient and sustainable — Zaltsman also commented with a perspective on the larger picture, as our population continues to grow.

		There are only two solutions. The first is reducing the population drastically, which only a monster would advocate, so we are left with the other strategy and that’s biotechnology. While there certainly are important issues, worldwide, related to patents and monopolization of the food supply, widespread rejection of the technology itself would be a grave mistake, leading to an exacerbation of human suffering.


shows where his mind is? seen this before



http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/crux/2014/09/08/where-build-off-world-colonies/
	By David Warmflash

	...It’s not because Earth is becoming overpopulated with humans (although it is). 


http://archive.constantcontact.com/fs116/1109148816517/archive/1120813205461.html

	“Orphan Black” is back! Reflections on reproductive cloning and eugenics
	David Warmflash | Genetic Literacy Project

	The Clones are Coming: Airing on BBC America​, the popular show Orphan Black​ already has included a goldmine of conversation starters highlighting social implications of human #reproductive cloning, and policy and societal issues of other biotechnologies that human cloning could facilitate. But is the spotlight on eugenics something that is a foreshadowing of what's to come, especially with the increasingly overpopulated Earth?


https://blog.pregistry.com/germline-modification/
	Germline Modification May Be Acceptable to Correct Disease
	David Warmflash

	...Scientists, ethicists, and others have been worried about germline modification –sometimes called heritable gene therapy– on the grounds that it could usher in an age of designer babies, or even a 21st century-style eugenics. Eugenics is concerned with genetic improvement of humanity through controlled breeding. It was a popular idea in the early 20th century, but it was embraced and perverted by the Nazis, so it fell out of favor. The concern today is that new biotechnologies would make eugenics much easier than it was in the 1940s. In one scenario, they imagine couples having the genome of their children tweaked to improve traits like intelligence, athletic ability, musical talent, and even beauty. If enough people do this, such children might be placed in special schools when they are young, leading ultimately to a two-class society.


https://stopmakingsense.org/2014/11/13/eugenics-making-a-comeback-as-a-respectable-policy/
	After hibernating for 60 years, eugenics is making a comeback, both in academic and popular spheres. Nazi enthusiasm for eugenics, as well as sterilisation campaigns throughout the Western world in the 1920s and 1930s, gave eugenics a bad name. However, In the Huffington Post recently, Joe Entine of the Genetic Literacy Project made the case for Eugenics 2.0


https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2017/01/05/real-story-anti-gmo-teen-sensation-rachel-parent-idealist-pawn-natural-marketers/
	Real story of anti-GMO sensation Rachel Parent: Idealist or pawn of ‘natural’ marketers?

	...common strawman arguments and half-truths, such as claiming that Third World hunger is due to poverty and not a food supply issue, when in reality both of those things are factors and the supply issue will get worse as we move toward a 9 billion plus population around mid-century.


------

an interesting feature of Warmflash and other propaganda--would have the effect of making some scientists loath the public? might make it easier for them to recruit misanthropes, otherwise damages society in general. Public and scientists would distrust each other.
