http://www.newyorker.com/news/evan-osnos/chinese-espionage
	Chinese Espionage
	By Evan Osnos   October 26, 2010

	Now that Russian spies have fallen short of our Hollywood fantasies, Americans have come to view China’s espionage efforts as one of two caricatures: impossibly vast and sophisticated or bumbling and antiquated. A flurry of new evidence suggests that the reality encompasses everything in between. 

	...In the magazine this week, Seymour Hersh explores how the U.S. has, at various moments, both underestimated and overstated the cyber-security threat posed by China—and how neither mistake should be a source of comfort. 


http://www.newyorker.com/news/daily-comment/is-the-comey-memo-the-beginning-of-the-end-for-trump
	Is the Comey Memo the Beginning of the End for Trump?
	By David Remnick May 17, 2017


------


http://ndupress.ndu.edu/Portals/68/Documents/stratperspective/inss/Strategic-Perspectives-11.pdf
	At this point, it was fair to say that the Active Measures Working Group effectively ceased to exist. Romerstein retired in 1989. While some of the members continued to meet, one of  them described the group’s meetings in the 1990s as “an exercise in nostalgia.” 491  The group’s  final report, “Soviet Active measures in the ‘Post-Cold War’ Era 1988–1991,” prepared at the re- quest of the House of Representatives, came out in June 1992. 492 Todd Leventhal wrote it under the auspices of USIA. By the time of publication, the Soviet Union no longer existed. However, it did offer a fascinating window into how the Soviets tried to alarm the West about the impend- ing breakup of the Soviet Union. It captured attempts by the KGB hardliners to forestall regime demolition by adopting a disinformation theme to the effect that it was not safe for the United States to let the Soviet Union implode. The report also warned that even though the Soviet  Union had collapsed, active measures were still a threat to U.S. interests because a number of anti-American groups and countries were adopting and expanding the use of active measures: “As long as states and groups interested in manipulating world opinion, limiting U.S. Govern- ment actions, or generating opposition to U.S. policies and interests continue to use these tech- niques, there will be a need for the United States Information Agency to systematically monitor, analyze, and counter them.”


Funny, that wasn't my takeaway...

Also, is this guy sure the head of Reagan's transition team gave the CIA good advice?
