http://intellit.muskingum.edu/russia_folder/russiad%26d_folder/russiad%26dcasey.html
	Soviet media manipulation and disinformation benefit from the open character of the Western press. For example, in the case of the attack on the Korean Air Lines Flight 007, killing 269 innocent passengers and crew, the initial Soviet reaction was to deny that the civilian plane had been shot down. After a period of regrouping while world revulsion mounted, the Soviet Government used obscure Western publications to float the disinformation that the Korean airliner was on a U.S. spy mission. This remarkable story was noted by Western media along with the U.S. denial. Then Soviet-controlled media quoted the story, frequently out of context, sourcing it to respected American and West European newspapers. In this way the Soviet Union was able to generate the impression of broad international support for its version of the affair, thereby turning a "Soviet massacre" into a "spy plane incident."



https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP91-00901R000600210056-1.pdf
	Soviets embark on new path of anti-American

	14 April 1981

	Last year Central Intelligence Agency Deputy Director for Operations John McMahon testified before Congress in closed committee session that the Soviets were spending from $3 billion to $4 billion a year on anti-U.S. covert action and propaganda.

	"The Soviets have established a worldwide network of agents, organizations, and technical facilities" to implement these programs, McMahon told the House Intelligence Committee.

	That network is second to none in comparison to the major world powers in its size and effectiveness."

	According to McMahon and other sources, such covert "active measures," as distinguished from the normal intelligence collection and counterintelligence functions of the KGB, have included:

	--Written and oral "disinformation." In may 1978, Soviet Ambassador to Zambia Solodovnikov warned Zambian President Kuanda falsely that Soviet intelligence had learned British and American intelligence services were plotting to overthrow him. Kuanda was advised against making a trip to Britain and the U.S., since his departure was to precipitate the coup.

	Solodovnikov said falsely that the U.S. and Britain had used a similar plan to overthrow Nkrumah of Ghana.

	--Forgeries and false rumors. A bogus U.S. Army field manual was cited by the Soviets as proof that the CIA was secretly manipulating the terrorist Red Brigades who murdered Italian leader Aldo Moro.

	This happened after it was reported that the REd Brigades had received training in Czechoslovakia and had ties with the Soviet Union.

	"Whenever the KGB is caught red-handed in an outrageous action that threatens the Soviet Union with serious embarrassment," wrote Reader's Digest Senior Editor John Barron in his book KGB: the Secret work of Soviet Secret Agents, "it hurriedly commences disinformation operations to divert world attention from the event. Frequently the KGB simply accuses others of doing precisely what it has been shown to have done."

	The forged field manual used in the Moro case also was used by the Soviets to try to prove that U.S. military and intelligence liaisons abroad are used as cover to penetrate and manipulate friendly foreign governments.

	--"Gray" or unattributed propaganda. When the Soviets want to create an aura of authenticity around an otherwise implausible position, they use a system of press placements through non-Soviet journalists recruited to make sure Soviet articles surface in the local foreign press.


pg 7:

https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP91-00901R000600210056-1.pdf
	Department of Dirty Tricks, Soviet Style
	
	3 March 1980

	While Russia's diplomats talked peace and reconciliation, her secret agents were busy concocting bogus documents to blacken America's image. A new CIA report spells out what happened.

	Now coming to light is the most complete disclosure yet of how the Soviet Union--even when detente was in full flower--systematically staged "dirty tricks" to discredit the U.S. among its allies and other nations.

	Details of the secret campaign were made public on February 19 by the House Intelligence Committee. The panel released a report by the Central Intelligence Agency that was sent to lawmakers as congressional debate heated up over proposals to give the CIA a freer hand to conduct cover operations of its own.

	The study portrays a clandestine anti-U.S. propaganda drive that started after World War II and reached a peak in intensity and sophistication during 1978 and 1979, the period in which the U.S. and the Soviet Union were wrapping up a new strategic-arms-limitation treaty.

	Among other things, Moscow is accused of using forged documents in various attempts to link the U.S. with terrorism around the world, including the 1978 assassination of former Italian Premier Aldo Moro.

	U.S. bureaucratese duplicated.

	The CIA says the Soviets have made near-flawless forgeries of everything from secret U.S. Army field manuals to classified State Department communiques. Not only have they obtained the proper inks, paper, printing presses and letterheads, but Soviet experts have become masters at duplicating the writing style of American bureaucrats.



------

Some big ol report from Active Measures Working Group

http://intellit.muskingum.edu/russia_folder/pcw_era/index.htm#Contents

------

http://docs.house.gov/meetings/FA/FA00/20170309/105674/HHRG-115-FA00-Transcript-20170309.pdf


most of these are bullshit?

the fact that the most visibile thing they did was the election helps politcize it

they miss everything else

instead of "is an ancient insane death cult brainwashing your children to be racist pricks"

the queqstions is "but SIR, ARE there peee pee tapes of the President?!?!"


http://intellit.muskingum.edu/russia_folder/pcw_era/sect_05.htm


This sounds like partial bullshit too? as if perestroika actually changed anything...

but its more informative bullshit at least


-----


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niger_uranium_forgeries

example of KGB forgery?


------


http://listverse.com/2013/05/25/10-dirty-secret-cia-operations/
	There is strong evidence that this type of activity has never ceased, though CHAOS itself was shuttered after the Watergate scandal. 

interestibg---what exactly happened with Watergate? remember Golitsyn saying Russians used it to hog-tie CIA
