https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/congress/frustrated-with-white-house-mccain-unveils-afghan-strategy/2017/08/10/6fe0d742-7dde-11e7-b2b1-aeba62854dfa_story.html
	McCain, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said the U.S. needs to put strict conditions on continued assistance to Afghanistan, and require the Kabul government to demonstrate “measurable progress” in curbing corruption, strengthening the rule of law and improving financial transparency.


public corruption? wonder if KGB has infiltrated? some did say there is a Taliban "shadow government"


	McCain said bluntly, “We are losing in Afghanistan and time is of the essence if we intend to turn the tide.”

	The Arizona lawmaker said he’ll seek a vote on his “strategy for success” in Afghanistan when the Senate returns in September and takes up the annual defense policy bill.



turn the tide, wants victory

Trump wants to give up?


	...His plan calls for sending in more U.S. combat forces, although he doesn’t say how many. But McCain wants them to be less constrained in carrying out missions against the Taliban, al-Qaida, a growing Islamic State affiliate and other extremists.


Why are they constrained now?


	...He also recommends expanding U.S. training assistance to the Afghan security forces so they can capably fight the Taliban and other militant groups. McCain proposes longer-term support that will allow the Afghans to develop and expand their own intelligence, logistics, special forces and airlift operations.


Well, there's your "exit strategy" Make Afghanistan independant


	McCain’s approach envisions better harnessing U.S. military and civil strengths in pursuit of a negotiated peace process that leads to Afghan political reconciliation and eventual diplomatic resolution to the war.


diplomacy with Taliban?

	...He also proposes to punish neighboring Pakistan with graduated diplomatic, military and economic costs “as long as it continues to provide support and sanctuary to terrorist and insurgent groups, including the Taliban and the Haqqani network.”


why aren't they doing that already?

	Among the Taliban’s factions, the strongest is the Haqqani network, which has deep ties to Pakistan and its intelligence agency. The relationship dates to the 1980s Afghan war against the Soviet Union, which had sent in more than 100,000 soldiers to support the pro-communist Afghan government.


ISI supporting Taliban


------


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/05/world/asia/iran-afghanistan-taliban.html
	Iran Gains Ground in Afghanistan as U.S. Presence Wanes

	By CARLOTTA GALL AUG. 5, 2017 

	...President Trump recently lamented that the United States was losing its 16-year war in Afghanistan, and threatened to fire the American generals in charge.

	There is no doubt that as the United States winds down the Afghan war — the longest in American history, and one that has cost half a trillion dollars and more than 150,000 lives on all sides — regional adversaries are muscling in.

	Saudi Arabia and Pakistan remain the dominant players. But Iran is also making a bold gambit to shape Afghanistan in its favor.

	Over the past decade and a half, the United States has taken out Iran’s chief enemies on two of its borders, the Taliban government in Afghanistan and Saddam Hussein in Iraq. Iran has used that to its advantage, working quietly and relentlessly to spread its influence.

	In Iraq, it has exploited a chaotic civil war and the American withdrawal to create a virtual satellite state. In Afghanistan, Iran aims to make sure that foreign forces leave eventually, and that any government that prevails will at least not threaten its interests, and at best be friendly or aligned with them.

	One way to do that, Afghans said, is for Iran to aid its onetime enemies, the Taliban, to ensure a loyal proxy and also to keep the country destabilized, without tipping it over. That is especially true along their shared border of more than 500 miles.

	But fielding an insurgent force to seize control of a province shows a significant — and risky — escalation in Iran’s effort.

	“Iran does not want stability here,” Naser Herati, one of the police officers guarding the post outside Farah, said angrily. “People here hate the Iranian flag. They would burn it.”


Iran destablizing Afghanistan?


	Iran has conducted an intensifying covert intervention, much of which is only now coming to light. It is providing local Taliban insurgents with weapons, money and training. It has offered Taliban commanders sanctuary and fuel for their trucks. It has padded Taliban ranks by recruiting among Afghan Sunni refugees in Iran, according to Afghan and Western officials.


	“The regional politics have changed,” said Mohammed Arif Shah Jehan, a senior intelligence official who recently took over as the governor of Farah Province. “The strongest Taliban here are Iranian Taliban.”


Says Iran are the ones backing the Taliban


	Iran and the Taliban — longtime rivals, one Shiite and the other Sunni — would seem to be unlikely bedfellows.

	Iran nearly went to war with the Taliban when their militias notoriously killed 11 Iranian diplomats and an Iranian government journalist in fighting in 1998.


Although Iran and Taliban have fought before


	...But as the NATO mission in Afghanistan expanded, the Iranians quietly began supporting the Taliban to bleed the Americans and their allies by raising the cost of the intervention so that they would leave.

	...Iran has sent squads of assassins, secretly nurtured spies and infiltrated police ranks and government departments, especially in western provinces, Afghan officials say.


Sounds like something Russia would do?


	Even NATO’s top commander in Afghanistan at the time, Gen. Sir David Richards of Britain, discovered that Iran had recruited his interpreter, Cpl. Daniel James, a British-Iranian citizen. Corporal James was sentenced to 10 years in prison for sending coded messages to the Iranian military attaché in Kabul during a tour of duty in 2006.


NATO Gen translater sends messeges to Iranian military attache


	...Both Russia and Iran have acknowledged that they have held meetings with the Taliban but maintain that they are only for information purposes.

	That the Taliban leader was personally developing ties with both Iran and Russia signaled a stunning shift in alliance for the fundamentalist Taliban movement, which had always been supported by the Sunni powers among the Arab gulf states and Pakistan.


	...On his last visit, Mullah Mansour traveled to the Iranian capital, Tehran, to meet someone very important — possibly Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said the former Taliban commander, who said he had gleaned the information from members of Mullah Mansour’s inner circle.


	Mullah Mansour stayed for a week, also meeting with a senior Russian official in the town of Zahedan, said Mr. Lalai, who spoke with relatives of the Taliban leader.

	He was almost certainly negotiating an escalation in Iranian and Russian assistance before his death, Mr. Lalai and other Afghan officials said, pointing to the increase in Iranian support for the Taliban during his leadership and since.


says Russia also having meetings with Taliban


	...Afghans dream of restoring their landlocked, war-torn country to the rich trading center it was in days of old, when caravans carried goods along the Silk Road from China to Europe, and people and ideas traveled along the same route.

	If Tehran has its way, the modern Silk Road will once again run across Afghanistan’s western border, and proceed through Iran. At least that is the ambition.


Didn't she just say Iran wanted to keep Afghanastan destablized?


https://twitter.com/carlottagall/status/894061949390127104
	 Carlotta Gall‏ @carlottagall 17m17 minutes ago

	Gulag grave hunter unearths uncomfortable truths in Russia


Tweeted this while I was reading her article


https://twitter.com/carlottagall/status/865642384855412736


Seems to be a fan of Stanely Greene -- mean anything?


https://twitter.com/carlottagall/status/856073482458759168
	As USSR found in #Afghanistan, not recognizing the numbers of casualties in war undermines the soldiers' morale and trust in govt @Davidloyn


------

https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/print_af.html
	Ahmad Shah DURRANI unified the Pashtun tribes and founded Afghanistan in 1747. The country served as a buffer between the British and Russian Empires until it won independence from notional British control in 1919. A brief experiment in democracy ended in a 1973 coup and a 1978 communist countercoup. The Soviet Union invaded in 1979 to support the tottering Afghan communist regime, touching off a long and destructive war. The USSR withdrew in 1989 under relentless pressure by internationally supported anti-communist mujahidin rebels. A series of subsequent civil wars saw Kabul finally fall in 1996 to the Taliban, a hardline Pakistani-sponsored movement that emerged in 1994 to end the country's civil war and anarchy. Following the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks, a US, Allied, and anti-Taliban Northern Alliance military action toppled the Taliban for sheltering Usama BIN LADIN.


Soviets invade, withdraw, civil war, then Taliban emergies in 1994 to take power in 1996



https://www.cia.gov/about-cia/cia-museum/experience-the-collection/text-version/stories/on-the-front-lines-cia-in-afghanistan.html
	This rapid deployment was possible because the CIA had developed and nurtured relationships with the Afghan Northern Alliance for several years prior to 9/11. Because of this thorough, low-key, and persistent effort, CIA officers knew the language, the history, and the culture of the region and were in position to move quickly against the terrorists. In addition to being “first on the ground” in October 2001, the CIA team was able to quickly amass an enormous body of information and a large stable of assets to launch rapid and robust efforts against the Taliban.


CIA still in Afghanistan leading up to 9/11


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/vol49no4/War_on_Terror_9.htm
	There have been a number of illuminating accounts of the CIA’s involvement in Afghanistan in the period 1980–2001, most of them critical. Such well-regarded studies as the 9/11 Commission Report, Steve Coll’s Ghost Wars, Daniel Benjamin and Steve Simon’s The Age of Sacred Terror, and Ahmed Rashid’s Taliban detail US missteps in South Asia and foreshadow the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington on September 11, 2001. In contrast, retired CIA officer Gary Schroen’s First In is a “good news” story for the Agency, recounting the brief, successful, CIA-led operation to assist the Afghan opposition in overthrowing the Islamist Taliban regime in the fall of 2001.


CIA doing dirty things in Afghanistan 1980-2001?


https://www.amazon.com/Age-Sacred-Terror-Radical-Against/dp/0812969847
	From two of the world’s foremost experts on the new terrorism comes the deﬁnitive book on the rise of al-Qaeda and America’s efforts to combat the most innovative and dangerous terrorist group ever. Daniel Benjamin and Steven Simon trace the growth of radical Islam from its medieval origins and, drawing on their years of counter-terrorism work at the National Security Council, provide essential insights into the thinking of Usama bin Laden and his followers. With unique authority, they analyze why America was unable to defend itself against this revolutionary threat on September 11, 2001, why bin Laden’s apocalyptic creed is gaining ground in the Islamic world, and what the United States must do to stop the new terror.

	...The central theme of this book is that Americans continue to underestimate the danger from Muslim terrorists. We couldn't conceive of a day like 9/11, and therefore it appeared a remote possibility. To the extent that we fail to understand this enemy's resolve, and the uncompromising hatred which it bears for us, we will enable them to continue to strike us. Steven Simon was Senior Director for the National Security Council's Directorate of Transnational Threats, and Daniel Benjamin was Director for Counterterrorism in the Clinton administration. It is stunning what they knew then and it is most remarkable what they have learned since then.


seems iffy


https://www.brookings.edu/blog/order-from-chaos/2017/01/12/how-trumps-attacks-on-the-intelligence-community-will-come-back-to-haunt-him/
	How Trump’s attacks on the intelligence community will come back to haunt him
	Daniel Benjamin


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/23/opinion/russia-is-a-terrible-ally-against-terrorism.html
	Russia Is a Terrible Ally Against Terrorism

	By DANIEL BENJAMIN

	But it’s a bad idea. A partnership with Russia of the kind Mr. Trump proposes has the potential to profoundly undermine the United States’ counterterrorism progress and shred our relationships with Sunni Muslims around the world. Moreover, it’s doubtful such an alliance could actually be forged.

	...Embracing Russia and its brutal tactics has the potential to stoke anti-American sentiment and encourage radicalization among Muslims around the world. The thought that we would run that risk, particularly when the United States’ Muslim community is one of the best-integrated, least radicalized in a predominantly non-Muslim country, is simply foolish.


strange reasons to cite


problem is that Russia funds/supports terrorism, not that it would "damage relationships."


https://www.brookings.edu/opinions/is-iran-about-to-unleash-a-wave-of-terrorism-against-the-united-states/

calls out Iran for funding terrorism around the world, but not Russia


------


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/vol49no4/War_on_Terror_9.htm
	Schroen’s memoir is mostly a straightforward account of his role leading the Northern Afghanistan Liaison Team (NALT) from mid-September to the end of October 2001. He opens with the gripping story of the al-Qa’ida-orchestrated mur­der of legendary ethnic-Tajik commander Ahmed Shah Masood on 9 September 2001 by two Arab assassins posing as journalists. Schroen had met Masood sev­eral times during earlier assignments in the region, meetings arranged by Masood’s close friend and political aide, Masood Khalili. It is Khalili who is Schroen’s chief source for the horrifying account of Masood’s assassination through a suicide bombing that almost killed Khalili, as well.

	Al-Qa’ida and its Taliban ally surely anticipated that Masood’s death would lead to the rapid military collapse of the Tajik-led Northern Alliance, which had been holding out against the stronger Taliban for nearly five years. Instead, the terror­ist attacks in the United States two days later sparked the Bush administration’s worldwide war against terrorism. The NALT deployed nine days after the 9/11 attacks, joining the Northern Alliance forces north of Kabul. 


Assassins destablize Afghanistan a few days before 9/11


------


https://www.britannica.com/place/Afghanistan/Civil-war-mujahideen-Taliban-phase-1992-2001
	Partly in response to this situation, the Taliban (Persian: “Students”) emerged in the fall of 1994. The movement’s spiritual and political leader was a former mujahideen fighter, Mullah Mohammad Omar, who was best known for his displays of piety and participation in the fight against the Soviet occupation. Drawing its recruits from madrasah (religious school) students in Pakistan and the southern province of Kandahār, the Taliban gained international attention when it was able to defeat those groups preying on the transit trade and when it succeeded in ridding Kandahār of its predatory and corrupt governors. The Taliban’s eventual success in extending its territorial control is largely attributable to the war-weariness of the Afghan people. In a short time others joined the students, including fighters formerly associated with the communists and a number of mujahideen defectors—many of whom were induced to switch sides by generous payments funded by the government of Saudi Arabia, then a major Taliban supporter.


communists join Taliban


	Partly in response to this situation, the Taliban (Persian: “Students”) emerged in the fall of 1994. The movement’s spiritual and political leader was a former mujahideen fighter, Mullah Mohammad Omar, who was best known for his displays of piety and participation in the fight against the Soviet occupation. Drawing its recruits from madrasah (religious school) students in Pakistan and the southern province of Kandahār, the Taliban gained international attention when it was able to defeat those groups preying on the transit trade and when it succeeded in ridding Kandahār of its predatory and corrupt governors. The Taliban’s eventual success in extending its territorial control is largely attributable to the war-weariness of the Afghan people. In a short time others joined the students, including fighters formerly associated with the communists and a number of mujahideen defectors—many of whom were induced to switch sides by generous payments funded by the government of Saudi Arabia, then a major Taliban supporter.

	The Taliban also won the early backing of senior Pakistani officials—including members of Pakistan’s ISI—who, along with companies involved in cross-border trading, were anxious to secure a road route through Afghanistan to markets in Central Asia. These same officials felt that the development of lucrative gas and oil pipelines from Central Asian fields to a Pakistani terminus would also be realized sooner were the Taliban to wrest full control of the country from other factions. Importantly, Taliban rule promised for Pakistan a pliant, friendly regime in Kabul, which contrasted with previous Afghan governments that often deflected Pakistani influence in Afghanistan’s domestic affairs through political overtures to India, Pakistan’s archrival. Despite the Taliban’s mostly Pashtun membership, the absence from their agenda of the familiar irredentist Pashtun claims against Pashtun regions of Pakistan—the Pashtunistan issue—made the Taliban a seemingly safe choice.


Saudi Arabia and Pakistan decide to back Taliban after it was formed

	However, the Taliban’s initial appeal counted heavily on uniting those Pashtuns deeply resentful of the Rabbani government, which was dominated by ethnic Tajiks. Not until the Taliban ventured into areas of the country populated largely by non-Pashtuns could its wider popular acceptance be tested. Minority-dominated Herāt, Afghanistan’s third largest city, fell to Taliban fighters in September 1995, and a year later the Taliban captured multiethnic Kabul, setting to flight both antigovernment troops and those of Rabbani. The northern city of Mazār-e Sharīf, populated by many ethnic Uzbeks, fell in August 1998. By 2001 the Taliban’s power extended over more than nine-tenths of the country, and in most areas under its control the militia succeeded in disarming the local inhabitants. A loose coalition of mujahideen militias known as the Northern Alliance maintained control of a small section of northern Afghanistan. Fighters for the Northern Alliance, particularly those under the command of Ahmad Shah Massoud, remained the only major obstacle to a final Taliban victory.


Taliban takes over with outside help, but Northern Alliance holds out


	Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates gave formal recognition to the Taliban government after the fall of Kabul, but the movement was denied Afghanistan’s seat at the UN and came under vigorous international criticism for its extreme views—with regard to women in particular—and its human rights record. Refusal by the Taliban to extradite Osama bin Laden, an Islamic extremist accused by the United States of planning violent acts and organizing a global terrorist network, led to UN sanctions against the regime in November 1999 and again in January 2001. The Taliban was also accused of harbouring and training militants—many of whom were holdovers from the war against the Soviets—planning insurgencies in the Central Asian republics and China. Iran objected to the treatment of the Shīʿite Muslim population and to the Taliban’s alleged association with groups that smuggled narcotics across the Iranian frontier. Pakistani authorities, although concerned about the possible ramifications of Islamic radicalism on their own society, continued to assist the Taliban economically and were given varying degrees of credit for aiding the Taliban in its military successes.


Taliban abuses human rights, harbors ambitions for global insurgencies


------


http://www.nytimes.com/1998/07/27/world/russians-are-back-in-afghanistan-aiding-rebels.html
	Russians Are Back in Afghanistan, Aiding Rebels

	By JAMES RISEN JULY 27, 1998

	In February 1989, the last Soviet troops wearily crossed the bridge over the Amu Darya out of Afghanistan, a defeated army walking home to an empire on the verge of disintegration.

	Now, nearly a decade later, the Russians are back, secretly engaged in the new Afghan war, according to United States and foreign officials.


Russia supporting Northern alliance 1998?


But CIA says it was doing the same leading up to 2001...


	The Russians find themselves in loose collaboration with Iran in countering the growing power of the Taliban. In fact, American officials and other experts say Iran is now supplying even more arms, fuel and other resources to the anti-Taliban rebels than is Russia.
Continue reading the main story

	Squared off against Russia and Iran in this post-cold-war confrontation are Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, which are backing the Taliban.


so saying Russia, Iran backing Northern alliance, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia backing Taliban


	And in this land of constantly shifting and often murderous alliances, the Russians are supporting rebel factions controlled by former leaders of the Afghan mujahedeen, the Islamic guerrillas who fought the Soviet Army in the 1980's with the backing of the Central Intelligence Agency. A prime beneficiary of Russian support is the rebel group led by Ahmad Shah Massoud, who once was one of the most aggressive and effective mujahedeen figures in the C.I.A.'s covert program against the Soviets in Afghanistan.


Russia says backing former CIA ally?


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/vol49no4/War_on_Terror_9.htm
	Schroen’s memoir is mostly a straightforward account of his role leading the Northern Afghanistan Liaison Team (NALT) from mid-September to the end of October 2001. He opens with the gripping story of the al-Qa’ida-orchestrated mur­der of legendary ethnic-Tajik commander Ahmed Shah Masood on 9 September 2001 by two Arab assassins posing as journalists. Schroen had met Masood sev­eral times during earlier assignments in the region, meetings arranged by Masood’s close friend and political aide, Masood Khalili. It is Khalili who is Schroen’s chief source for the horrifying account of Masood’s assassination through a suicide bombing that almost killed Khalili, as well.


huh


CIA says meeting with same guy around the same time


	...The irony of the situation has not been lost on Mr. Massoud's one-time American backers. ''Massoud was the pointed end of the stick, the man we went to when we really wanted something done against the Russians,'' an American intelligence official said.

	Yet as the Russians move back into Afghanistan, the American role in the country seems to be diminishing. 

	The Clinton Administration supports neither side in the war. It has harshly criticized the Taliban for their militant policies, especially their treatment of women, and refuses to recognize it as the government of Afghanistan.


Risen happy about this?


	...Support for the Afghan rebels serves Iranian and Russian economic and political interests. The northern alliance acts as a buffer between the Taliban and the Afghan border with the former Soviet republics, while the continuation of civil war in the country prevents Western oil companies from building pipelines across Afghan territory.


Wonder how they supported them? Seems like Russia was supporting Taliban since the beginning?


	...In fact, American intelligence officials say that both the northern alliance and the Taliban now field such impressive arsenals that they could not acquire, maintain and operate them without foreign assistance. Both sides have hundreds of T-54 and T-62 Russian-designed tanks, along with towed artillery, multiple-rocket launchers, and MIG-21 and SU-17 fighter aircraft, according to United States intelligence estimates.

	While the abundance of surplus weaponry left over from the Soviet-supplied Afghan Army is being used by both the rebels and the Taliban


sounds familliar


	...Russian military instructors are also said to be working with the rebels, and one American official said Iranian personnel were also on the ground.


well they didn't do a very good job... the Taliban got 9/10ths of the country

	...A former Russian intelligence officer said in an interview that Russia's intelligence services were also playing a covert role in Afghanistan on behalf of the rebels. The former officer, who has defected to the United States and has been resettled by the C.I.A., said Russia's foreign and military intelligence services have operatives working in northern Afghanistan with Mr. Massoud and General Dostum. The military intelligence service is responsible for at least some of the clandestine shipments to the rebels, he added.

	''Massoud was one of the bitterest enemies of the Soviet Union, but the situation is now very clear,'' the Russian said. ''He is the lesser of two evils. The real fear of Moscow is that the fall of the northern alliance would boost fundamentalism into Central Asia and even into Russia itself.''


fishy


	...On the other side, the United Nations report said the Taliban were getting foreign arms shipments that include the delivery of tanks and armored personnel carriers. A 200-truck convoy of military equipment recently arrived for Taliban forces, the report said.

	United Nations officials in Afghanistan also reported seeing foreign military advisers aiding both sides.

	''The problem,'' a United States official said, ''is that the Afghans still see that the solutions to their problems come from fighting.''



guessing Russia supporting Taliban, stepped in to gain influence with Northern Alliance which CIA were supporting, Russia gains influence with Northern Alliance and uses it to make them lose.


Similar deal with Chaign-Kai sheck, influence both sides and steer conflict so your side wins.

Also same tactic of supplying one faction by leaving behind equipment.


------


https://jamestown.org/program/the-taliban-formally-recognizes-chechnya/
	January 18, 2000 08:00 AM Age: 18 years 

	 The leadership of the self-declared republic of Chechnya-Ichkeria and the leadership of Afghanistan’s Taliban movement have established diplomatic relations. The Taliban government itself is recognized only by Pakistan, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.

	On January 16, Taliban leader Mullah Omar met with former Chechen President Zelimkhan Yandarbiev in Afghanistan and officially announced that the Taliban recognizes Chechnya’s independence. The Russian Foreign Ministry released a statement denouncing Omar’s action as being aimed at creating a kind of “bandit international.” According to the Foreign Ministry statement, the Taliban’s recognition of Chechnya was the action of an “illegal regime not recognized by the world community” and is the target of United Nations sanctions (Russian agencies, Kavkaz.org, January 17).

	The Taliban’s recognition of Chechnya’s independence was not unexpected. Official Djohar and the Taliban have long been in close contact. Chechen delegations have visited Afghanistan on more than one occasion, and about a year ago then Chechen Foreign Minister Movladi Udugov traveled to Kabul and officially declared that the Chechen state recognizes the Taliban government. 


	...While Moscow has not produced convincing evidence of military links between the Taliban and the Chechens, it is likely that their charges are not without basis. One of the most influential field commanders, Khattab, a Chechen of Arab extraction, fought against Soviet forces in Afghanistan, and established close contacts with field commanders there. Two years ago, in a conversation with the Monitor’s correspondent, Chechen field commander Shamil Basaev admitted that he and his fighters had been in Taliban military training camps three times.


Chechans supporting Taliban, Russia distances itself from Taliban

------

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/abdullah-sharif/russia-and-afghanistan-st_b_8468740.html
	The U.S. will maintain about 5,500 troops beyond 2016. While Afghanistan’s desire to acquire Russian military hardware will not pose an immediate threat to the U.S. involvement in Afghanistan, it is somewhat disconcerting that after 14 years of shedding blood and expending treasure, the Afghans are looking towards Moscow again.


Russia trying the same thing again? And now trying to stall Prince as Afghan commander


------

http://www.zharov.com/afghan/taliban.html
	They were somewhat unorthodox in prohibiting music, dances, kites, and drums on the pretext that these things distracted people from working on becoming better Muslims and productive members of society. The very same idea was behind the demand to visit a mosque for all five daily prayers, as a Muslim can usually pray in any place except on Friday noon when it is highly recommended to come to a mosque for a congregational prayer.


erasing Afghan culture?

	Russia and Iran, concerned with a new foe on their borders, and the US, quite upset about Bin Laden having a safe haven in Afghanistan, used these tactical screw-ups to demonize the Taliban and build up a negative public perception of it. Naturally, women's rights or containerization of the Hazaras were not the real issues — tons of people protest daily against war in Iraq, or napalmization of the Chechens, or constant genocide by some Africans of some other Africans, but nobody in these governments listens to these protests.

	Practically every mention of the talibs on TV included the same video of an Afghan woman in a burqa being publicly executed. Well, she was a convicted murderer, she was tried and got a death penalty, and this was the court order being carried out, but none of this, naturally, was disclosed to the viewers. All they saw was that the Taliban killed women.


author seems sympathetic to Taliban

------

https://www.cfr.org/report/testimony-situation-afghanistan-united-states-senate-committee-foreign-relations
	Testimony by Barnett R. Rubin 

lots of stuff on Taliban

	And the increasing politicization of Islamic identity has increased the salience of Sunni/Shia sectarian differences.


how did that come about?

	...Just as the Taliban prepared to campaign for international diplomatic recognition, however, the United States on August 20, 1998, launched a cruise missile attack against camps in Afghanistan that it charged contained the terrorist infrastructure of a movement led by Osama bin Laden, the wealthy Saudi exile. The United States claimed to have strong evidence implicating bin Laden and his network of exiled Islamists in the bombing of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania on August 7. The United States also raided a pharmaceutical factory in Khartoum, Sudan, said to be manufacturing precursors of chemical weapons substances. The Taliban's continued defense of bin Laden and their denunciation of the U.S. raid ruled out any dialogue between the Taliban and the United States that perhaps would lead to U.S. diplomatic recognition and construction of oil and gas pipelines from Central Asia through Afghanistan.


	...The United Nations continued to call attention to foreign intervention as an important factor intensifying the conflict. The reports of the secretary-general published in November 1997 and June 1998 spoke in unusually frank terms, describing supplies of arms and military training by foreign countries and explicitly questioning their sincerity in supporting the U.N. mission.60Following a "Presidential Statement" of the Security Council of 13 July 1998, Special Envoy Brahimi told the press: "The fact is that this war cannot go on unless it receives support from outside. The legend that the Russians have left enough arms for fighting to continue for 50 years is just that . . . a legend, it is not possible."


interesting


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barnett_Rubin
	Dr. Rubin has advised the United Nations, NATO, the United States and the Afghan government on numerous policy matters, including aid policy, security policy, and diplomatic strategy.


Interesting

don't trust this guy


https://foreignpolicy.com/2014/10/20/is-the-afghan-unity-government-a-roadmap-for-negotiations-with-the-taliban/

Rubin wants negotiations with Taliban?


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/01/opinion/the-art-of-the-deal-in-afghanistan.html
	He may exert stronger pressure on Pakistan to stop harboring the Afghan Taliban and employ tougher military measures against the Taliban in Afghanistan, though there is no basis for believing that either of those measures would work better than they have for the past 15 years.

	Hopes that Mr. Trump would sustain such fruitless measures fly in the face of his own words. In October 2015 he told Chris Cuomo of CNN that Afghanistan was a “mess” and that “we made a terrible mistake getting involved there.” Mr. Trump added that he “would leave the troops there, begrudgingly.”
Continue reading the main story

	The United States has 8,400 troops in Afghanistan and finances the Afghan security forces and the rest of the state at a cost estimated to be around $4 billion a year. The Trump administration is unlikely to sustain that level of spending, since it is reportedly considering how to cut federal spending by $10.5 trillion over 10 years.


he wants U.S. out of Afghanistan, sounds like?


------


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-35169478

    Why are the Taliban resurgent in Afghanistan?

    ...First, the end, in 2014, of the US and Nato combat mission and the withdrawal of most foreign forces from Afghanistan reduced the risk the Taliban faced of being bombed and raided.

    The group was further emboldened by the comparative lack of interest from the international community and the diversion of its attention to crisis in other parts of the world, such as Syria, Iraq and Ukraine.


------


http://www.businessinsider.com/exploring-al-qaedas-murky-connection-to-russian-intelligence-2014-6
	Exploring Al Qaeda’s Murky Connection To Russian Intelligence
	The XX Committee

	John Schindler, The XX Committee 


John Shindler claims Rusisan intel connection to Al Qaeda


	...That Dr. Ayman al-Zawahiri, bin Laden’s right-hand man and the leader of the global jihad movement since bin Laden’s death in May 2011, spent almost a half-year in the mid-1990s in the custody of Russian intelligence is admitted by both sides and is a matter of public record.[3] 


Bin Laden right hand man released by Russian intel?


	...Radical Muslims in Russia, including one member of the Duma, pleaded for their release, explaining that the Arabs had come to Russia to “study the market for food trade.” Various activists from across the region likewise wrote letters on the men’s behalf, claiming they embodied “honesty and decency”; the advocates included leading Arab mujahidin, among them Tharwat Salah Shehata, later head of EIJ.


activism campaign to release him?

	...Zawahiri has been tight-lipped about his half-year in Russia; his numerous writings and pronouncements about his life barely mention the tale. “God blinded them to our identities,” he explained. The FSB agrees that they failed to identify the leading holy warrior. “In 1997, Russian special services were not aware of al-Zawahiri,” elaborated an FSB spokesman in 2003: “However, later, using various databases, we managed to identify this former detainee.”[5]


That's interesting, you'd think they'd know better than that?


	...Hard evidence about what Zawahiri was doing in Russian custody has not been forthcoming. Dissident FSB Colonel Aleksandr Litvinenko made explosive claims. In a 2005 interview, Litvinenko asserted that Zawahiri actually underwent training by the FSB in Dagestan during his half-year in Russian custody, and that Russian intelligence then dispatched him to Afghanistan to become bin Laden’s right-hand man. “I worked in the same division [of the FSB],” he stated, “I have grounds to assert that al-Zawahiri is not the only link between the FSB and al-Qa’ida.”[8]


This guy legit?


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_Litvinenko
	In a July 2005 interview with the Polish newspaper Rzeczpospolita, Litvinenko alleged that Ayman al-Zawahiri, a prominent leader of al-Qaeda, was trained for half a year by the FSB in Dagestan in 1997 and called him "an old agent of the FSB".[66][69] Litvinenko said that after this training, al-Zawahiri "was transferred to Afghanistan, where he had never been before and where, following the recommendation of his Lubyanka chiefs, he at once ... penetrated the milieu of Osama bin Laden and soon became his assistant in Al Qaeda."[70] Konstantin Preobrazhenskiy, a former KGB officer and writer, supported this claim and said that Litvinenko "was responsible for securing the secrecy of Al-Zawahiri's arrival in Russia; he was trained by FSB instructors in Dagestan, Northern Caucasus, in 1996–1997."[71] He said: "At that time, Litvinenko was the Head of the Subdivision for Internationally Wanted Terrorists of the First Department of the Operative-Inquiry Directorate of the FSB Anti-Terrorist Department. He was ordered to undertake the delicate mission of securing Al-Zawahiri from unintentional disclosure by the Russian police. Though Al-Zawahiri had been brought to Russia by the FSB using a false passport, it was still possible for the police to learn about his arrival and report to Moscow for verification. Such a process could disclose Al-Zawahiri as an FSB collaborator. In order to prevent this, Litvinenko visited a group of highly placed police officers to notify them in advance." According to Sergei Ignatchenko, an FSB spokesman, al-Zawahiri was arrested by Russian authorities in Dagestan in December 1996 and released in May 1997.[72]

	When asked in an interview who he thought the originator of the 2005 bombings in London was, Litvinenko responded saying,[66] "You know, I have spoken about it earlier and I shall say now, that I know only one organization, which has made terrorism the main tool of solving of political problems. It is the Russian special services." He later added, "And I am sure, that there will be no prosecutions of Moslems after the event."[73]


sounds legit




http://www.edition.cnn.com/2002/WORLD/europe/09/10/ar911.russia.putin/index.html
	 MOSCOW, Russia (CNN) -- Within hours of the attacks on New York and Washington, Russian President Vladimir Putin was on the phone to George W. Bush -- the first international leader to call the U.S. president on September 11.

	"Russia knows directly what terrorism means," Putin said later in a televised address.

	"And because of this we, more than anyone, understand the feelings of the American people. In the name of Russia, I want to say to the American people -- we are with you." 


hmmm


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ayman_al-Zawahiri
	Ayman Mohammed Rabie al-Zawahiri[4] (Arabic: أيمن محمد ربيع الظواهري‎‎  ʾAyman Muḥammad Rabīʿ aẓ-Ẓawāhirī, born June 19, 1951)[5] is the current leader of al-Qaeda and a current[6] or former member and senior official of Islamist organizations which have orchestrated and carried out attacks in North America, Asia, Africa, and the Middle East. In 2012, he called on Muslims to kidnap Western tourists in Muslim countries.



------


one of al-zawahiri's buddies goes on to meet al-Khattab. This is interesting:


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ibn_al-Khattab
	A Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation (FSB) investigation named Khattab as the mastermind behind the September 1999 Russian apartment bombings.[11] However, on 14 September 1999, Khattab told the Russian Interfax news agency in Grozny that he had nothing to do with the Moscow explosions; he was quoted as saying, “We would not like to be akin to those who kill sleeping civilians with bombs and shells.”[12]

	The conclusion by the FSB remains controversial. Some researchers, such as Johns Hopkins University/Hoover Institute scholar David Satter,[13] came to conclusion that the bombings were in fact a "false flag" attack perpetrated by the FSB in order to legitimate the resumption of military activities in Chechnya. 


maybe they're both right?


	...Khattab later survived a heavy-calibre bullet wound to the stomach and a landmine explosion. He was killed during the night of 19–20 March 2002, when a Dagestani messenger hired by the Russian FSB gave Khattab a poisoned letter. Chechen sources said that the letter was coated with "a fast-acting nerve agent, possibly sarin or a derivative".[17][18] The messenger, a Dagestani double agent known as Ibragim Alauri, was turned by the FSB on his routine courier mission.


hmmm


------

https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP90B01370R001601980004-3.pdf


Says "southern theater" (middle east?) is important for Soviet world domination

pg 2

	Soviet strategy in the SOuthern Theater can best be addressed in terms of Soviet policy toward several sub-regional problems or relationships each, of which links to others, often in contradictory ways. The one which weights most heavily on the Soviet leadership today is the war in Afghanistan.


	...If the Soviets do win in Afghanistan, or are seen to be on the road to ultimate victory at costs they can easily bear, th political and strategic impact on the region will be considerable. The countries of the region will increasingly be persuaded that Soviet power must be accomodated; and the Soviets will gradually assemble new assests for intruding upon the region, such as military bases and points of local political-economic contact. It is unlikely that a gradual Soviet victory will itself galvanie regional resistance since the drama of the original invasion did not do so.


a staging area for them?

pg 4

	...India has long been a part of Soviet strategy for the containment of China.


interesting ... true today?


pg 5

	...the Soviets tactic of playing both sides still works to some extent, despite the pronounced til to Iraq. We have recent reporting to the effect that the Soviets now regard the Iran-Iraq war as tending to play into their hands because of the security problems it has engendered encourage Iran and other Gulf staes to seek Soviet favor, including Soviet arms, permitting the Soviets to penetrate politically without jettisoning their tie to Iraq.


Did Soviets want Iran-Iraq war?

	...The decimation of the Tudeh and the leftist Mujahedin in Iran have sharply reduced Soviet prospects for developing a congenial alternative to the Khomeini regime at the center. But it's very hard to tell what Soviet influence assets are still available. According to a KGB defector, they never were very abundant, but his knowledge may be incomplete. He is demonstrably ill-informed on Soviet efforts to penetrate non-Persian nationalities. Moreover, as indicated above, some Iranian leaders today are more willing to enterain ties to Moscow than is Khomeini.


So CIA knew of Soviet influence ops in Iran--not much of a surprise

pg 7

	...the Soviets might be willing to promote the removal of Sadam Huseyn if they can identify a successor regime in which they have confidence.


looks like they did exactly that


	...This formula is unlikely to carry the Soviets very far beyond their current relations with Kuwait, however, barring some other change in the politics of the area, e.g., some development which dramatically discredits the protective role of the US (e.g., our leaving Pakistan in the lurch), and builds the image of the USSR as very powerful but sufficiently benign to work with.


sounds like their strat today? Trump to discredit the U.S., and Putin tries to do everything with plausible deniability


	...The hallmarks of the Soviet posture toward the Southern Theater are:

		Abiding ambitions to dominate the reigion for both offensive and defensive reasons.

		The military potential for strategic dominance created by the buildup of Soviet regional and intercontinental forces over the past twenty years.

		Multiilayered tactical tools -- from arms supply to terrorism -- for exploiting the internal and interstate instabilities of the region.

	


So basically sounds like when they couldn't expand communism to the middle east they just turned it into a big war machine/terrorism factory against the U.S.	



------


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-afghanistan-minerals-idUSKCN1B102L?il=0


Trump wants to take a cut of Afghanistans natural resources, in exchange for...?


he will make the Taliban more popular


	KABUL (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump is eyeing Afghanistan's mineral wealth to help pay for a 16-year war and reconstruction efforts that have already cost $117 billion. Investors who have studied the country, one of the world's most dangerous, say that is a pipe dream. 


	..."There is no low-hanging fruit that could trigger rapid growth and foster self-sustaining development," said the government's own National Peace and Development Framework document, presented at last year's donor conference in Brussels. 

	...For the rest, resources have been prey to what William Byrd, a development economist with the United States Institute of Peace, has dubbed "industrial-scale looting".

	While small and medium-sized mines do exist, many are outside government control, profiting powerful local operators and depriving the treasury of what the government estimates at $300 million in unpaid taxes.

	"The big mining opportunities are just languishing and there's looting of smaller resources everywhere," Byrd said. 


so what is Trump going to do more looting?


	...As Afghan officials sought to raise interest in Afghanistan with the incoming U.S. administration earlier this year, they pushed the idea of the mineral reserves.

	"President Trump is keenly interested in Afghanistan's economic potential," Hamdullah Mohib, Afghanistan's ambassador to Washington, told Reuters in June. "Our estimated $1 trillion in copper, iron ore, rare earth elements, aluminum, gold, silver, zinc, mercury and lithium. That's new." 


Afghan officials know how Trump works, I guess?

	U.S. officials have told Reuters that Trump argued at a White House meeting with advisors in July that the United States should demand a share of Afghanistan's mineral wealth in exchange for its assistance to the Afghan government. [nL1N1KP007]

	U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said on Sunday that Trump has made a decision on the United States' strategy for Afghanistan after a review with national security advisors, but did not give any details. [nL8N1L60GC] 


article implying this is a part of Trump's deal



http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-afghanistan-idUSKBN1361OE
	KABUL (Reuters) - With so much riding on American support, Afghanistan is waiting anxiously to see if President-elect Donald Trump matches his maverick image and reverses policy or keeps to a path that has cost billions and committed thousands of troops to propping up a fragile ally.

	Much to the private annoyance of officials in Kabul, America's longest war barely featured in the election campaign, but few were expecting the billionaire property developer to beat former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.

	"It's been a complete surprise," said one senior Afghan official closely involved in national security issues. "I think everyone was expecting the opposite result.

	"It (Afghanistan) wasn't a priority in the campaign, that's obvious. No one talked about Afghanistan at all. At least with Mrs. Clinton, though, you knew more or less what you were getting."

	Afghanistan will nonetheless present the incoming Trump administration with one of its most intractable foreign policy challenges.

	The United States has spent some $115 billion in aid for Afghanistan, but 15 years after the hardline Islamist Taliban were toppled after the Sept. 11 attacks, a third of the country is out of government control and security forces are struggling.

	As recently as last week two U.S. service members were killed fighting the Taliban near the northern city of Kunduz, and expectations that Afghan security forces could survive without extensive foreign assistance have proved illusory. 


so Afghanistan thinking of trying to get Trump to commit more forces?

Trump thinking like a dictator, doesn't seem to care about terrorism, good will, things like that


http://www.latimes.com/world/afghanistan-pakistan/la-fg-trump-afghanistan-20170820-story.html


says planning troop increase, pressure Pakistan

sounds like McCainn's plan?
