https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bertolt_Brecht#Cold_War_and_final_years_in_East_Germany_.281945.E2.80.9356.29
	Inspired by the developments in USSR Brecht wrote a number of agitprop plays, praising the bolshevik collectivism (replaceability of each member of the collective in Man Equals Man) and red terror (The Decision). As Herbert Lüthy commented on this period of Brecht's work:


	...In the years of the Cold War and "Red Scare", Brecht was blacklisted by movie studio bosses and interrogated by the House Un-American Activities Committee.[61] Along with about 41 other Hollywood writers, directors, actors and producers, he was subpoenaed to appear before the HUAC in September 1947. Although he was one of 19 witnesses who declared that they would refuse to appear, Brecht eventually decided to testify. 



the man who perfected agitprop theatre participated in a live act


here it is:

https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Brecht_HUAC_hearing_%281947-10-30%29_transcript


they make Stripling read Communist poems of strength and unity while hardnosing about communism, while Brecht pretends to forget the words


dunno if Stripling was a Soviet spy or not


would be funnier if it were Dickstein



------


http://www.seagullfilms.com/archive/landscapes-of-the-soul/michurin
	Dovzhenko's final feature is a biography of the famed Russian horticulturist, even imagining him as an artist of sorts: his pre-Revolutionary hardships bear a certain Tolstoyan quality, up to and including damnation from the church ("Do not turn God's garden into a brothel!"). After the Bolshevik victory, however, Michurin's career is an ever-rising crescendo of successes, culminating in his doctrine's acceptance as the "sole correct line in the biological sciences." 



https://books.google.com/books?id=vTswH3fLLdgC&pg=PA188
	...All possible means of propaganda were deployed in the Michurinist campaign. In December 1948 the Soviet film industry produced a new color film, Michurin. The author of the screenplay and director of the film was one of the country's most famous directors, Aleksandr Dovzhenko, the music was composed by Dimitrii Shostakovich, and the starring role was played by one of the most popular actors of the time, Grigorii Belov.

	...The propaganda of Michurinism, then, occupied a considerable place in Soviet activities in the international scene in the late 1940s and early 1950s.


https://books.google.com/books?id=Ul5THCLL6roC&pg=PA131&lpg=PA131
	...The film, simply entitled "Michurin," was in color, had a musical score by Shostakovitch, and for the Chinese audience, it was dubbed in Chinese. According to an article in the New York Times, the film was released in the Soviet Union on January 2, 1949, after an unprecedented publicity campaign that was determined "to have the film seen by the maximum audience, especially in the rural areas."
	

https://books.google.com/books?id=OYz1DAAAQBAJ&pg=PT355&lpg=PT355
	Michurin faces down every conceivable obstacle, frustration, and disappointment in pursuit of a crazy dream: that one day, fruit gardens will bloom all over his cold, tough country.
	
	...Katashe, a fictional figure, is talking to Michurin about genes, chromosomes and mutations. Michurin answers: 'It is time for biology to get off the pedestal! It should speak the language of the people, and not get lost in the fog!' Two pot-bellied capitalist professors from the United States temp him with bags of gold and promises of glory in America. He waves a violet-scented lily under their noses. ...He tells them his flower is a hybrid of a violet and a lily. 'That's the trouble with the Mendelians, they can't explain hybrids!' The capitalists withdraw, muttering and cursing.

	A priest wags a finger, shouting: 'Do not turn God's garden into a brothel!' The old gardener ignores him. He focuses even deeper in his work.



------

https://www.britannica.com/topic/agitprop
	The twin strategies of agitation and propaganda were originally elaborated by the Marxist theorist Georgy Plekhanov, who defined propaganda as the promulgation of a number of ideas to an individual or small group and agitation as the promulgation of a single idea to a large mass of people. Expanding on these notions in his pamphlet What Is to Be Done? (1902), Vladimir Lenin stated that the propagandist, whose primary medium is print, explains the causes of social inequities such as unemployment or hunger, while the agitator, whose primary medium is speech, seizes on the emotional aspects of these issues to arouse his audience to indignation or action. Agitation is thus the use of political slogans and half-truths to exploit the grievances of the public and thereby to mold public opinion and mobilize public support. Propaganda, by contrast, is the reasoned use of historical and scientific arguments to indoctrinate the educated and so-called “enlightened” members of society, such as party members.


https://championdrama.wordpress.com/2015/10/03/techniques-of-agitprop-theatre/


http://www.encyclopedia.com/history/modern-europe/russian-soviet-and-cis-history/agitprop
	These modern conveyances functioned like moving posters with exterior decorations of heroic figures and folk art motifs accompanied by simple slogans. The trains and ships brought revolutionary leaflets, agitators, newsreels, and agitki (short propaganda films), among other items. Agit-trains were reinstituted during World War II to convey propaganda to forces at the front.


seems kindof weird? they were really into propaganda...


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ck-7wqD2Zf0


creepy that the do this sort of thing, perfect it, then try to kill them with it...


https://books.google.com/books?id=xXCcAQAAQBAJ&pg=PA13&lpg=PA13&dq=soviet+agitprop+theatre&source=bl&ots=4DKNhpU1PI&sig=haRZGz6xkvmE5cvJMZDm0BCVr4g&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiMlaqKkqbWAhVk6IMKHTVbBs44ChDoAQgzMAQ#v=onepage&q=soviet%20agitprop%20theatre&f=false


"theatre of the oppressed"


------


https://books.google.com/books?id=h3By77UU4nIC&pg=PA187
	Inventing the Opposition: Kremlin Parties

	The other side of the coin to neutering real or potentially dangerous oppositions is promoting 'virtual oppositions' in their stead. There are several basic types of invented or virtual opposition. The first is virtual populists: politicians or parties who have been allotted the role of tribune of the people; as they are covertly supported by the regime, they have no intention of really challenging it, of course. A second, related type is virtual neophytes. Even apathy or anti-politics can be exploited by the invention of 'anti-political' parties, both to drain away such sentiment and exploit it as a political springboard. The third type is soft opponents, who can play the part of real challengers to convince domestic audiences or international observers that a contest is taking place, but who are either safely unelectable or have no intention of pushing the contest too hard. The fourth are bogey or scarecrow (pugal) individuals or parties. These have to seem a sufficiently bad alternative to the powers-that-be as to frighten domestic electorates or foreign governments and lenders into backing the incumbents. This may not necessarily involve a plausible electoral challenge--it may be enough for the dark forces to remain lurking offstage. Finally, if the desire for change is strong enough, such change can always be staged. These categories, of course, overlap, and may also overlap with those of the many-layered pie: that is, many of the elements that end up in such a pie will previously have posed as oppositions.

	Parties that are secretly backed by the powers-that-be may therefore be found across the formal left-right political spectrum. The authorities may also try to manipulate the balance of forces within the opposition. They may play up the extremes, inflating radical fringe elements to discredit the mainstream opposition, or even to justify a crackdown against it. Or they may play a game of 'calm and control', seeking to manipulate mainstream opposition parties to keep their 'opposition' within manageable bounds, as again with the still-huge Communist parties in both Russia and Ukraine--to which the next chapter is therefore devoted. Sometimes the authorities may do both, which is most characteristic of the more developed Russian and Ukrainian systems. The authorities may play large against small, preferring to deal with the devil they know and have invested in before. Or they may play small against large, as when the authorities sponsor smaller radical groups on the far left or right in order to play divide and rule.

	It can, of course, be objected that one or more elements in a virtual system would have existed anyway, and the fact that a given politician or party has covert links to the authorities or their technologist hirelings does not necessarily mean they are subject to total covert control. Nor, of course, are more of the cruder tactics involved unknown elsewhere. It is the scale of ambition, the sophisticated tactics and the use of 'new' technologies, plus the attempt by the Kremlin or Bankivska Street to control so many pieces on the political chessboard, that make the game being played in the former USSR so unique. The overall strategy is directed democracy, but to a much greater degree than is normally understood.



pg 142


	...One party official even dared voice the fear that: 'We are good actors. Our major task now is for the party stage not to turn into a one-man theatre. With no audience to see the play.'



pg 81


	Politics as Theatre: Disguising the State Holding Company


	Despite the revival of Bolshevik traditions of manipulation in the Gorbachev period, post-Soviet elites were often unsure how to conduct themselves in the immediate aftermath of 1991. The fine art of modern political technology only really came into its own with the Russian electoral cycle of 1995/6, since when it has been further refined in Russia and exported elsewhere. Many parties and politicians in 1991 to 1996 were of a 'transitional' type: not in the sense that some in the West might imagine of evolving towards the norms of liberal democracy, but in the sense that they were susceptible to manipulation without being originally designed as part of an entire (or core) system of manipulation.


	...Political technologists therefore employ virtual strategies of 'information make-up' ("informatsionnyi grim") to reshape the raw political materials or push their clients into the background. A second, more radical, possibility is veiling the client behind and entire virtual drama ("informatsionnaia dramaturgiia"). According to Borges, there are only four basic devices in fantastic literature: 'the work within the work, the contamination of reality by dream, the voyage in time and teh double'; this list can server as a useful typology of virtual dramas in the post-Soviet world. In the first ('the work within the work'), public politics is increasingly difficult to read, being soaked in many complex layers of meaning, while the hinterland of subplots and private scripts is much less likely to be accessible to the reader or voter. Public politics is also 'intertextual', a kaleidoscope of different faces in different views. In the second ('the contamination of realty by dream'), the invented world can easily become the real. Borges invented the world of Tlon, whose history, language and philosophy were deemed so fabulous that they were adopted by the credulous real world in place of its own. In the post-SOviet world puppet politicians such as Zhirinovskii or Nataliia Vitrenko often end up playing a real political role. THe great mass of voters stumbles around in an information haze, unsure of which are 'dream' and which are 'real' elements. In the third ('the voyage in time'), events are restaged at a time when their original meaning is lost, such as the 'Communist threat' to Russia in 1996, or, conversely, before the become more frighteningly real, like the 'terrorist threat' in 1999. And finally, in the fourth ('doubing' or the obfuscation of identity), the deliberate cloning of opponents or idea-type assets is all-important in disconnecting political subjects, confusing observers and maintaining the theatricality of the system as a whole.

	Many post-Soviet strategies combine various elements of the above. A favourite subtype of dramaturgiia is perevod strelki ('switching the points') to confuse both time and agency: shifting responsibility to blame the old regime, the IMF, the West or 'extremists' for society's current woes, or imposing a new drama over an old one, as with the Ukrainian authorities' attempts to redefine the issue at the 2004 election as being west versus east within Ukraine rather than being anything to do with moral issues of good governance after losing out in the dress rehearsal in 2002. Another favourite local strategy is zelenye vorota ('green gates'), the artificial polarisation of choice, usually involving the threat of apres moi, le deluge, democracy in danger, or scarecrow extremists taking power.


pg 12

	A new type of political theatre of fake appeals and plebiscites was invented for the Soviet Union's interventions in Eastern Europe in the 1940's. After the invasion of the three Baltic States in the summer of 1940, Stalin's plenipotentiaries staged an elaborate six-week 'play' rather than simply announcing annexation. The first act was to establish the fiction that events were being guided by native Communist parties: an impressive feat given that the Estonian Communist Party, for example, had only 133 members at the time. These parties were then used as the basis for setting up three imaginary Leagues of the Working People, which received impressive majorities ranging from a mere 92.8 per cent (Estonia) to as much as 99.2 per cent (Lithuania) in rigged elections held in July. The final act was the new People's Diets' unanimous votes to join the Soviet Union. Given the concurrent invasion, the internal drama was not very convincing, but the charade was nevertheless deemed important and set a precedent for the tactics used to install new Communist regimes in Eastern Europe in 1945-9.


pg 22


	'We have to create the first alternative party ourselves, but a party that can be managed.'

	...The most notorious such project in 1990-91 was the Liberal-Democratic Part of the Soviet Union, led by the not-yet notorious Vladimir Zhirinovskii. Zhironovskii had graduated from Moscow State University's Institute of Asian and African Countries and worked for the Soviet Peace Committee--both KGB stomping grounds--and may have been even more susceptible to 'influence' after several scrapes, such as being expelled from Turkey in 1969 for allegedly working for the KGB.

	...Zhironovskii's first appearance on the public stage did not involve the extremes of behaviour, such as throwing water, pulling women's hair or brawling with opponents, that would later characterise his performances. In any case, as two of Zhironovskii's biographers point out, 'to claim Zhironovskii is insane is like accusing the actor who plays Othello of murder'.



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Zhirinovsky


lol I remember this guy


http://www.newsweek.com/russias-zhirinovsky-threatens-shoot-opponents-if-he-succeeds-putin-568275
	Russia’s Zhirinovsky Threatens to Shoot Opponents if He Succeeds Putin

	...Vladimir Zhirinovsky, whose LDPR party seldom breaks ranks with United Russia, has long served as a tumultuous and ultra-conservative foil for Vladimir Putin at presidential elections.


I don't really get what this guy is supposed to do in general

make Putin look good in elections is one obvious one

is he supposed to be funny? entertaining? controversial? maybe a distraction, kindof like Trump

------


There are no morals in politics; there is only expedience. A scoundrel may be of use to us just because he is a scoundrel. --Lenin



------

http://articles.latimes.com/1993-12-31/local/me-7188_1_president-yeltsin



So did Zhironovsky make Putin look less scary?

His foreign policy is basically Putin's/KGBs, so Putin can win and "assure" people that he doesn't believe in Zhironovsky's views


http://www.nytimes.com/1994/04/05/world/zhirinovsky-cult-grows-all-power-to-the-leader.html?pagewanted=all&mcubz=1
	Though his outburts have elicited guffaws or outrage here and abroad, they have also had an unmistakable effect on Russian and international politics. The Yeltsin Government has absorbed the "Zhirinovsky factor," notably in its foreign policy, which now puts considerable, and repeated, emphasis on the need to assert Russia's great-power status and on the interests of the 25 million ethnic Russians living outside the country. 


	..."The Americans are clever," he said. "They know it is better to come here with chewing gum, stockings and McDonald's." These lines got big applause from the delegates, who one hour later were to greet the strong anti-American message from the Iraqi delegation with equal enthusiasm. Still, Themes Fall In Fertile Soil 


maybe moved Russian politics closer to Putinism?

I guess makes it harder to criticize Putin as an agressive nationalist--they can just say: "well look at Zhironovsky!"


	...On the one hand, he lambasts the Yeltsin Government for its incompetence and corruption, and the Foreign Ministry as a "nest of C.I.A. spies," and on the other hand he boasts that his tight ties with "the President and my frequent contacts with the top political leadership" in the Kremlin make him a man for the West to reckon with.


right, accuse Yeltsin of being CIA asset--did they have any KGB pretending to be pro-Yeltsin CIA?

would be similar to Warmflash, others pretending to be pro-Monsanto stooges


	For the moment, Mr. Zhirinovsky is continuing to play the role of a maverick, anti-establishment politician, throwing out outlandish claims and threats like so many well-placed hand grenades. When he goes into his blood-curdling litany about the rapes, beatings and tortures committed against Russians living in the "near abroad" -- none of which he has ever substantiated -- he is clearly counting on stirring his Russian audiences to ever-higher pitches of outrage. And when he threatens to retaliate by strafing these territories with napalm, he is playing to their hidden desire to revenge the humiliation many feel Russia has been made to suffer. 


a lot like Trump
