http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...infowars.com ... globalresearch.ca ... consortiumnews.com ... opednews.com ... thirdworldtraveler.com ... lewrockwell.com ... washingtonsblog.com ... zerohedge.com...


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_President's_Commission_on_CIA_Activities_within_the_United_States
	The commission was created in response to a December 1974 report in The New York Times that the CIA had conducted illegal domestic activities, including experiments on U.S. citizens, during the 1960s. The commission issued a single report in 1975, touching upon certain CIA abuses including mail opening and surveillance of domestic dissident groups. It publicized Project MKUltra, a CIA mind control study.

	It also studied issues relating to the John F. Kennedy assassination, specifically the head snap as seen in the Zapruder film (first shown on television in 1975), and the possible presence of E. Howard Hunt and Frank Sturgis in Dallas, Texas.


http://www.washingtonsblog.com/2016/11/fake-news-cia-director-admitted-us-senate-400-agents-dictate-fake-news-manipulate-americans-rogue-state-empire-easily-documented-ongoing-corporate-media.html
	...revealing 14-minute video, beginning with CIA Director Colby’s testimony to the US Senate for the 1975 Church Committee admitting the CIA directs corporate media how to lie to the American public

	...Fake News ‘covers’ crimes of US government assassinations of President Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, Martin King

	3-minute video of Dan Rather’s fake news from November 25, 1963 to sell the lie that President Kennedy’s fatal head shot caused “violent forward motion” opposite to the fact his head was violently hit to cause backward motion (hat tip What Really Happened)

	...This is part of easily documented history of US rogue state assassinations of President Kennedy, Robert Kennedy (and here) when he was poised to win the 1968 presidency, Martin King when he was poised to “Occupy DC” with a million people in the summer of ’68 until the Vietnam War was ended with those funds redirected to end domestic poverty, and ~100 other assassinations for political purposes. 


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_F._Kennedy_assassination_conspiracy_theories
	In 1977, the FBI released 40,000 files pertaining to the assassination of Kennedy, including an April 3, 1967 memorandum from Deputy Director Cartha DeLoach to Associate Director Clyde Tolson that was written less than a month after President Johnson learned from J. Edgar Hoover about CIA plots to kill Fidel Castro. The memorandum reads: "Marvin Watson [adviser to President Johnson] called me late last night and stated that the president had told him, in an off moment, that he was now convinced that there was a plot in connection with the [JFK] assassination. Watson stated the president felt that [the] CIA had had something to do with plot." Later, Cartha DeLoach testified to the Church Committee that he "felt this to be sheer speculation".


https://www.lewrockwell.com/2013/11/jacob-hornberger/how-they-murdered-jfk-2/
	The National-Security State’s Assassination of John F. Kennedy

	...Sure, we know how the feds treat people like Daniel Ellsberg, Chelsey (Bradley) Manning, John Walker Lindh, and Edward Snowden. They arrest them, they torture them, they abuse them, they prosecute them, and they incarcerate them.

	And we also know how the CIA and the FBI viewed communist sympathizers during the Cold War, such as those in the U.S. Communist Party, the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, and, according to national-security state officials, even the American civil-rights movement. They spied on them, they harassed them, they prosecuted them, they blackmailed them, they incarcerated them, and they ruined them.

	But hey, Lee Harvey Oswald was different, right?

	...Neither the Warren Commission nor the Washington establishment considered Dulles’ appointment to be a conflict of interest because it never occurred to them that the CIA might have been the one who orchestrated and carried out the assassination. It wouldn’t be until the 1970s, during the Church Committee hearings and the House Select Committee hearings, that people would learn that the trust that the Warren Commission had placed in the CIA had been seriously misplaced.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-06-04/putin-hints-jfk-was-murdered-deep-state-which-now-after-trump-and-russia
	Putin Hints JFK Was Murdered By The "Deep State" Which Is Now After Trump And Russia

	by Tyler Durden

	...But the most notable highlight of the interview was Putin's tongue in cheek hint that the Deep State - the same entity that may have been behind the Kennedy assassination according to the Russian president - is now behind the attempt to topple Trump and the ongoing push to sour ties with Russia:

		"There is a theory that Kennedy's assassination was arranged by the United States intelligence services. So if this theory is correct, and that can't be ruled out, then what could be easier in this day and age than using all the technical means at the disposal of the intelligence services and using those means to organize some attacks, and then pointing the finger at Russia." 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-05-14/putin-plays-soviet-classics-badly-tuned-piano-during-china-summit
	Putin Plays Soviet Classics On Badly Tuned Piano During China Silk Road Summit

	by Tyler Durden

	...It was a departure for the president who, as the NYT put it, "has ridden shirtless on a horse in Siberia, piloted a hand glider with migratory birds, swum with dolphins, tossed judo opponents, and dived into the depths of Lake Baikal and the Black Sea." 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-03-31/buchanan-asks-putin-preeminent-statesman-our-times
	Buchanan Asks "Is Putin The 'Preeminent Statesman' Of Our Times?"

	by Tyler Durden

	...Putin’s approval rating, after 17 years in power, exceeds that of any rival Western leader.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2014-11-10/how-putin-rolls
	This Is How Putin Rolls

	by Tyler Durden


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2014-04-27/quest-find-putins-billions
	The Quest To Freeze "Putin's Billions"

	by Tyler Durden

	...Numbers are thrown around suggesting that Mr. Putin may control $40 billion or even $70 billion, in theory making him the richest head of state in world history.


http://www.zerohedge.com/contributed/2013-09-16/mega-putin-rich
	Mega Putin Rich


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-12-25/losers-malice-whats-behind-obamas-attacks-putin
	A Loser's Malice: What's Behind Obama's Attacks On Putin

	by Tyler Durden

	...For Obama, it appears that everything has gotten personal. The US president often acts like a petulant adolescent, jealous of a high school rival.


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/book5/html/ChurchVol5_0004b.htm
	Church Committee Reports

	Book V: The Investigation of the Assassination of President J.F.K.: Performance of the Intelligence Agencies

	...In the days following the assassination of President Kennedy, nothing was more important to this country than to determine the facts of his death; no one single event has shaken the country more. Yet the evidence of the Committee has developed suggests that, for different reasons, both the CIA and the FBI failed in, or avoid carrying out, certain of their responsibilities in this matter.

	The Committee emphasizes that this Report's discussion of investigative deficiencies and the failure of American intelligence agencies to inform the Warren Commission of certain information does not lead to the conclusion that there was a conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.


http://www.globalresearch.ca/jfk-at-100-kennedy-assassinated-by-a-conspiracy-between-the-cia-joint-chiefs-of-staff-and-secret-service/5592608
	JFK at 100. “Kennedy Assassinated by a Conspiracy between the CIA, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Secret Service”

	...Researchers who spent years studying the evidence have concluded that President Kennedy was assassinated by a conspiracy between the CIA, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Secret Service. 


http://www.globalresearch.ca/cia-targeted-assassinations-by-induced-heart-attack-and-cancer/5326382
	CIA Targeted Assassinations by Induced Heart Attack and Cancer

	The 1975 Church Committee hearings

	In 1975, during the Church Committee hearings, the existence of a secret assassination weapon came to light.

	...There was little hesitancy in Jack Ruby killing Lee Harvey Oswald in order to prevent him from talking, so there is no reason to suspect that any more consideration would have been shown Jack Ruby if he had posed a threat to people in the US government who had conspired to murder the president of the United States – John F Kennedy.

	...Mr. Charles Senseney, a CIA weapon developer at Fort Detrick, Maryland, testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee in September 1975 where he described an umbrella poison dart gun he had made. 
	...Video footage of the assassination of John F Kennedy shows this umbrella gun being used in Dealey Plaza. 


https://www.infowars.com/cia-assassination-program-revealed-nothing-new-under-the-sun/
	CIA Assassination Program Revealed: Nothing New Under the Sun

	...Mongoose operatives later worked with the CIA and the Mob to assassinate president John F. Kennedy.

	...As former CIA employee Ralph McGehee documents, the agency fine-tuned this mass murder program in Vietnam. Under Operation Phoenix, the U.S. “neutralized” 81,740 National Liberation Front of South Vietnam members, including the assassination of 26,369 people (a Church Committee Report in 1976 put the number killed at 20,000; see McGehee’s CIA and Operation Phoenix in Vietnam)


http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/Assassinations_page/The_Assassinations_JFK.html
	The Church Committee also heard testimony from Smathers, who stated that once when it was brought up in his presence (presumably by the CIA-friendly Smathers), Kennedy got so mad he smashed a dinner plate and told him he did want to hear of such things again. (Alleged Assassination Plots, p. 124.) Smathers furthered this portrait later when he stated that:

		President Kennedy seemed "horrified" at the idea of political assassination. "I remember him saying that the CIA frequently did things he didn't know about, and he was unhappy about it. He complained that the CIA was almost autonomous. He told me he believed the CIA had arranged to have Diem and Trujillo bumped off. He was pretty well shocked about that. He thought it was a stupid thing to do, and he wanted to get control of what the CIA was doing." (The Assassinations: Dallas and Beyond pp. 379-380)

	Such statements not only absolve Kennedy, they actually provide a motive for the CIA to get rid of him, which is probably why the media ignored them.


https://consortiumnews.com/tag/otis-pike?print=print-search
	When the CIA’s Empire Struck Back

	Exclusive: In the mid-1970s, Rep. Otis Pike led a brave inquiry to rein in the excesses of the national security state. But the CIA and its defenders...


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/book5/html/ChurchVol5_0004b.htm
	Church Committee Reports

	Book V: The Investigation of the Assassination of President J.F.K.: Performance of the Intelligence Agencies

	...Findings

	The Committee emphasizes that it has not uncovered any evidence sufficient to justify a conclusion that there was a conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.

	The Committee has, however, developed evidence which impeaches the process by which the intelligence agencies arrived at their own conclusions about the assassination, and by which they provided information to the Warren Commission. This evidence indicates that the investigation of the assassination was deficient and that facts which might have substantially affected the course or those individuals within the FBI and the CIA, as well as other agencies of Government, who were charged with investigating the assassination.

	The Committee has found that the FBI, the agency with primary responsibility in the matter, was ordered by Director Hoover and pressured by higher government officials, to conclude its investigation quickly.


https://consortiumnews.com/2016/11/21/failed-investigations-of-jfks-murder/
	“It must be said that the FBI generally exhausted its resources in confirming its case against Oswald as the lone assassin,” the HSCA concluded, “a case that Director J. Edgar Hoover, at least, seemed determined to make within 24 hours of the of the assassination.”

	In essence, the experienced investigators concluded that Hoover had divined the solution to the crime before starting the inquiry, and then his agents confirmed the boss’s epiphany. The intimidated Warren Commission went right along.

	...But they don’t tell that Hoover deployed one of his favorite dirty tricks to deal not only with support staffers, such as Willens and Mosk, but also with the commissioners themselves.

	...Thus, despite their clear misgivings, the Commissioners bowed to the imperious FBI chief rather than conduct a thorough investigation.


https://www.reddit.com/r/The_Donald/comments/6h3cme/fbi_vault_drops_the_j_edgar_hoover_files_while/
	FBI Vault drops the J. Edgar Hoover files while everyone is watching the Sessions testimony. Perhaps a hint that Comey knows all about the domestic spying?


https://vault.fbi.gov/j.-edgar-hoover-official-and-confidential-o-c-files
	This posting consists of material that was previously posted on the FBI's original FOIA Reading Room web site and released in hard copy prior to that. It has been digitally enhanced to be more readable.


http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/CIA/Who_Killed_JFK.html
	Evidence of a cover-up

	The evidence that there was a cover-up is just as impressive as the evidence that there was a conspiracy in the first place. Here is a brief run-down, including a couple of points not mentioned above:

	...* Many more witnesses have died than would normally be expected, many in mysterious circumstances.
	* Both the FBI and the CIA concealed important evidence from the Warren Commission....


 	...Who was involved?

	The Soviets

	Two related theories propose that Nikita Khrushchev, humiliated by the 1962 Missile Crisis, instigated the assassination.

	...But the Soviet theory raises more questions than it answers. Why would the USSR risk nuclear war to promote LBJ, a much more militant Cold Warrior than JFK? 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-01-14/will-cia-assassinate-trump-ron-paul-warns-more-powerful-shadow-government
	Will The CIA Assassinate Trump? Ron Paul Warns Of "More Powerful, Shadow Government"

	...If President Trump takes his rogue populism too far, he will suffer the wrath of the same people who took out Kennedy… there are some things that are not tolerated by those who are really in charge.


https://www.infowars.com/33-conspiracy-theories-that-turned-out-to-be-true-what-every-person-should-know/
	33 Conspiracy Theories That Turned Out To Be True, What Every Person Should Know…

	...Kennedy Assassination – the 2nd Investigation by Congress Few People Know About, United States House of Representatives Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA): The HSCA was established in 1976 to investigate the John F. Kennedy assassination and the Martin Luther King, Jr. assassination. The Committee investigated until 1978, and in 1979 issued its final report, concluding that President John F. Kennedy was probably assassinated by a conspiracy involving the mob, and potentially the CIA.

	...To this day, many conspiracy deniers are unaware that the Congressional investigation into JFK’s assassination concluded beyond any shadow of a doubt that it was a conspiracy.  What made them come to this conclusion?  Aside from reading the report, many witnesses (some of whom were CIA agents and station chiefs in Dallas that morning) were killed the night before testifying.  For example, George de Mohrenschildt was a petroleum geologist who befriended Lee Harvey Oswald during the months preceding the assassination of U.S. President John F. Kennedy.  He also worked for the CIA.  He also blew his brains out the night before he was to testify to the committee. The committee also uncovered, among many things, that Oswald left the marines where he learned how to speak fluent Russian (at the height of the cold war).  He was given money by the State Department to travel to Russia where he stopped off in Japan at a top secret US Military facility.  The Warren Commission even mentioned this part.  What most people do not know is that he probably was working in the Cold War infiltrating the Russians as either a “dangle,” “double agent,” or “defector” of some kind. 


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/book5/html/ChurchVol5_0004b.htm
	Church Committee Reports

	Book V: The Investigation of the Assassination of President J.F.K.: Performance of the Intelligence Agencies

	...The Committee has found that even with this narrow focus, the FBI investigation, as well as the CIA inquiry, was deficient on the specific question of the significance of Oswald's contacts with pro-Castro and anti-Castro groups for the many months before the assassination.


http://www.globalresearch.ca/william-pawley-the-kennedy-assassination-and-watergate-tilt-and-the-phase-three-story-of-clare-boothe-luce/5313486
	And Carrozza speculates that the team of Cubans exfiltrated into Cuba for this purpose may have been the team that (according to a John Roselli story published by Jack Anderson) came “back to the United States as the team that killed President Kennedy and set up Oswald as the fall guy.”


https://www.lewrockwell.com/2014/11/no_author/operation-mongoose-and-the-murder-of-jfk/
	The JFK assassination, Cuba policy and Operation Mongoose

	This period of US history proved to be toxic, with a poisonous legacy that is still felt today. The assassinations of Robert Kennedy, Martin Luther King Jr and Malcolm X followed. Race riots and the Vietnam War would lead to such civil unrest and turmoil that political leaders accelerated the passing of civil rights legislation and wound down the war. The era culminated in Watergate. The Church Committee, named after Senator Frank Church, would eventually be set up in order to investigate the actions of intelligence agencies and how events had spiralled so out of control. The revelations that followed of the FBI’s mass surveillance and wiretapping programme CountelPro and the CIA’s Executive Action programme (code-named ZR/RIFLE) were incendiary. The latter was the CIA’s assassination apparatus, which employed a strategy of plausible deniability in order that the executive could disavow responsibility in the event of exposure. It was directed against various foreign leaders. The Church Committee not only meticulously details the CIA’s failed plots on Castro’s life but also documents the involvement of the CIA with the Mafia in this common aim. The US public would never see their government institutions in the same way again. Faith in government began to crumble the moment those shots rang out in Dealey Plaza.

	Malcolm X was probably closer to the mark than he realized when he commented on the assassination that ‘the chickens had come home to roost’. He was referring to the climate of hate in the US at the time.
