http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/poll-americans-trust-james-comey-over-trump_us_593c4814e4b0b13f2c6b1b69?section=us_politics
	Views are deeply divided along political lines, although Trump’s doubters are notably more unified than his defenders. Seventy percent of Trump voters say they trust the president’s honesty more than Comey’s, while 89 percent of voters who supported Hillary Clinton put more faith in the former FBI director. The remainder of the public, made up of non-voters and third-party voters, have little faith in Trump, with just 15 percent saying he is the more honest. But only 44 percent have outright faith in Comey’s trustworthiness either, with nearly as many saying they’re uncertain. 


politicized. hmmm...

------

http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/337279-donald-trump-my-father-said-he-hoped-comey-would-let-go-of
	Donald Jr.: My father said he 'hoped' Comey would let go of investigation

	Jr. defended his father Saturday after former FBI Director James Comey's testimony, saying that his father never told the ousted top cop to end investigations into former National Security adviser Michael Flynn, but merely told Comey he "hoped" that he would.

	"I think it's clear that everything that went on in the Comey testimony was basically ridiculous," Trump told Fox's Jeanine Pirro on Saturday.

	"You and I both know my father a long time. When he tells you to do something, guess what, there's no ambiguity in it. There's no, 'Hey I'm hoping'. You and I are friends, 'Hey hope this happens but you get to do your job'. That's what he told Comey."

throwing his father under the bus?

what did Trump actually say? have no idea

	Donald Trump Jr. on Saturday seemed to confirm Comey's account of the meeting by saying that his father didn't tell Comey to end the investigation, but only said he hoped he would.


http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/337256-watergate-prosecutor-comey-testimony-started-obstruction-of
	Watergate prosecutor Nick Ackerman said ousted FBI Director James Comey’s testimony Thursday marks the first part of an obstruction of justice case into President Trump.

	“Comey came out and put in the first leg of the obstruction case, which is that meeting in the Oval Office,” Akerman told MSNBC’s Lawrence O’Donnell on Friday.
