https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/

	COMEY: ...Second case I wanted to mention is, all of you know what a botnet is. These are the zombie armies of computers that have been taken over by criminals lashed together in order to do tremendous harm to innocent people. Last month, the FBI working with our partners with the Spanish national police took down a botnet called the Kelihos botnet and locked up the Russian hacker behind that botnet, who made a mistake that Russian criminals sometimes make of leaving Russia and visiting the beautiful city of Barcelona. And he's now in jail in Spain and the good people's computers who had been lashed to that zombie army have now been freed from it and are no longer part of a huge criminal enterprise.


FBI brought down Russian botnet

-----

Grassley asking about leaks


	GRASSLEY: Okay, moving on to another subject, the New York Times recently reported that the FBI had found a troubling email among the ones the Russians hacked from Democrat operatives. The email reportedly provided assurances that Attorney General Lynch would protect Secretary Clinton by making sure the FBI investigation “didn't go too far.”


	How, and when, did you first learn of this document? Also, who sent it and who received it?


IIRC this was involved in Comey's decision to go public about Clinton emails


------


	COMEY: ...I could see two doors and they were both actions. One was labeled speak, the other was labeled conceal. Because here's how I thought about it, I'm not trying to talk you into this, but I want you to know my thinking. Having repeatedly told this Congress, we are done and there's nothing there, there's no case there, there's no case there, to restart in a hugely significant way, potentially finding the emails that would reflect on her intent from the beginning and not speak about it would require an active concealment, in my view.


Comey didn't want to "conceal," so intended to speak publicly about the Weiner investigation?

	COMEY: No, there was a great debate. I have a fabulous staff at all levels and one of my junior lawyers said, should you consider that what you're about to do may help elect Donald Trump president? And I said, thank you for raising that, not for a moment because down that path lies the death of the FBI as an independent institution in America. I can't consider for a second whose political fortunes will be affected in what way.

Comey wasn't thinking politics, just speak or conceal


------

Feinstein talking about 702 use


------

Hatch asking about DNA database law, also brings up 702

------


	COMEY: Okay, I'll be quick. The department — I think I treated both investigations consistently under the same principles. People forget we would not confirm the existence of the Hillary Clinton email investigation until three months after it began, even though it began with a public referral and the candidate herself talked about it.

	In October of 2015, we confirmed it existed and then said not another word — not a peep about it until …

	LEAHY: Until the most critical time …

	COMEY: … we were finished.

So Comey/FBI confirmed the email investigation, but only after it was already made publicly available. And his decision to "go public" afteward was complicated by Lynch meeting Clinton and the email to Lynch


------

	COMEY: I commented as I explained earlier, on October 28 in a letter that I sent to the chair and rankings of the oversight committees, that we were taking additional steps in the Clinton email investigation because I had testified under oath repeatedly that we were done, that we were finished there.

ok saying he tesitified under oath email investigation was done, so did he think of this like "ammending his testimony?"


------

	Now, either they're lying, or there's a serious problem within the bureau. Anybody in the FBI during this 2016 campaign have contact with Rudy Giuliani about — about the Clinton investigation?

	COMEY: I don't know yet. But if I find out that people were leaking information about our investigations, whether it's to reporters or to private parties, there will be severe consequences.


"don't know yet?" interesting


	LEAHY: But you are looking into it?

	COMEY: Correct.

So now Comey says he's looking into leaks?


------


	CORNYN: ...Of course, it was the former attorney general Loretta Lynch, who up until that meeting with President Clinton, was the person responsible for making the decision whether to convene a grand jury involving the allegations against Secretary Clinton. And it was former attorney general Loretta Lynch who apparently forbade you from using the word investigation. Indeed, if the New York Times story is true, a Democratic operative expressed confidence that the former attorney general would keep that investigation from going very far.


Cornyn pointing out Lynch interfering with FBI probe


Goes on to talk about 702


------

	KLOBUCHAR: And then because and -- Attorney General Sessions is recused from that and now Rod Rosenstein is approved, you go to him then to get that approval?

	COMEY: Yes, I've already briefed him. I think his first day in office I briefed him on where we are, and so he would be the person to make that decision.

saying Trump DOJ would sign-off on FBI briefing Congress of their findings

Klobuchar talking about money laundering and shell company use by Russia


------


	Can you discuss how the FBI has coordinated with the Election Assistance Commission, Department of Homeland Security, and state and local election officials to help protect the integrity of our election process?

	COMEY: Thank you, Senator. In short, what we've done with DHS is share the tools, tactics and techniques we see hackers, especially from the 2016 election season, using to attack voter registration databases and -- and try and engage in other hacks. And we've pushed that out to all the states and to the Election Assistance Commission so they can harden their networks. That's one of the most important things we can do is equip them with the information to make their systems tighter.


what about the whole McConnell debacle?


------


	GRAHAM: Did you ever talk to Sally Yates about her concerns about General Flynn being compromised?

	COMEY: I did, I don't whether I can talk about it in this forum. But the answer is yes.

	GRAHAM: That she had concerns about General Flynn and she expressed those concerns to you?

	COMEY: Correct.


So Yates and Comey talked about concerns with Flynn


	GRAHAM: We'll talk about that later. Do you stand by your house testimony of March 20 that there was no surveillance of the Trump campaign that you're aware of?

	COMEY: Correct.

	GRAHAM: You would know about it if they were, is that correct?

	COMEY: I think so, yes.

	GRAHAM: OK, Carter Page; was there a FISA warrant issued regarding Carter Page's activity with the Russians.

	COMEY: I can't answer that here.

	GRAHAM: Did you consider Carter page a agent of the campaign?

	COMEY: Same answer, I can't answer that here.

	GRAHAM: OK. Do you stand by your testimony that there is an active investigation counterintelligence investigation regarding Trump campaign individuals in the Russian government as to whether not to collaborate? You said that in March...

	COMEY: To see if there was any coordination between the Russian effort and peoples...

	GRAHAM: Is that still going on?

	COMEY: Yes.

	GRAHAM: OK. So nothing's changed. You stand by those two statements?

	COMEY: Correct.

	GRAHAM: But you won't tell me about Carter Page?

	COMEY: Not here I won't.


What is Comey saying here? sounds like there was surveillance of the Trump campaign.

------

	GRAHAM: OK. The Chairman mentioned that fusion -- are you familiar with fusion?

	COMEY: I know the name.

	GRAHAM: OK. Are they part of the Russian intelligence apparatus? COMEY: I can't say.

	GRAHAM: Do you agree with me that a fusion was involved in preparing the dossier against Donald Trump? That would be interfering in our election by the Russians?

	COMEY: I don't want to say.

That's a good point

------


	GRAHAM: OK. Do you agree with me that Anthony Weiner of 2016 should not have access to classified information?

	COMEY: Yes. That's a fair statement.

	GRAHAM: Would you agree with me that if that's not illegal, we've got really bad laws.

	COMEY: Well, if he hadn't...

	GRAHAM: Well he got it somehow.

	COMEY: It would be illegal if he didn't have appropriate clearance...

	GRAHAM: Well, do agree with me he didn't have appropriate clearance?

	COMEY: He...

	GRAHAM: If he did have appropriate clearance that'd be even worse.

	COMEY: I don't believe at the we found that on his laptop that he had any kind of...

	GRAHAM: I agree. So for him to get it should be a crime. Somebody should be prosecuted for letting Anthony Weiner have access to classified information. Does that make general sense?

	COMEY: It could be a crime. It would depend up what the...

	GRAHAM: Well, do you agree with me it should be. That anybody that allows Anthony Weiner to have classified information probably should be prosecuted? If our laws don't cover that, they probably should...

	COMEY: There's not Anthony Weiner statute, but it is -- there's already...

	GRAHAM: Well, maybe we need -- good one.

	COMEY: There's already a statute.

	GRAHAM: All right good.

	COMEY: There's already a statute to cover it. GRAHAM: I just wonder how he didn't get classified information and it not be a crime by somebody.


What exactly happened here? I guess Comey would say someone would have to have knowingly given Wiener classified information?


------

	GRAHAM: Do you agree that they did not change the actual vote tally, but one day they might?

	COMEY: I agree that -- I very much we found no indication of any change in vote tallies. There was efforts aimed at voter registration systems, but I suppose in theory, part of the United States, the -- the beauty of our system is it's a bit of a hairball. And all different kinds of systems and -- and you know...

	GRAHAM: Have they done this in other countries where they actually tampered with the vote?


Interesting. I thought they said they didn't assess impact on the election? Comey saying they assessed this specifically?

------

Whitehouse talking about FBI rules on commenting on investigations

------

	SEN. BEN SASSE, R-NEB.: Thank you Chairman.

	Director thank you for being here. Given the FBI's extensive responsibilities and expertise in cyber and counterintelligence investigations, how likely do you think it is that Senate IT systems have been targeted by foreign intelligence surfaces -- services?

	COMEY: I would estimate it's a certainty.

	SASSE: Inside the IC who -- who would talk about that problem and who at the Senate would they inform?

	COMEY: Well, there have been -- I don't want to talk about particular matters, but it often is the FBI alerting a U.S. government institution or private sector. DHS might come across it, or -- or other parts of the intelligence community, especially NSA.

Russian hacked Congress IT?


Sasses talks about Assange, Wikileaks


------


	FRANKEN: OK, this is a expert report that exhaustively documents Russia's past efforts to undermine European democracies. According to the report Russia is known to cultivate close ties with business and political leaders in target countries. This is stuff you acknowledged to Senator Whitehouse that you knew happened. The report explains that, quote, Russia has cultivated an opaque network of patronage across the region that it uses to influence and direct decision- making.

	In other words, Russia has a strategy of creating the conditions that give rise to corruption, then exploiting that corruption to its own benefit. And the intelligent -- intelligence communities unclassified assessment of the Russia -- Russian campaign to influence the American election -- our nation's intelligence agencies write, quote, "Putin has had many positive experiences working with Western political leaders whose business interests made them more disposed to deal with Russia." That seems to jive with your understanding of what Russia has done.

	COMEY: Correct.


"The Kremlin playbook"

http://www.csd.bg/fileadmin/user_upload/160928_Conley_KremlinPlaybook_Web.pdf

neat didn't know about that

------

	What is your assessment of why the Russian government had a clear preference for President Trump?

	COMEY: The intelligence communities' assessment had a couple of parts with respect to that. One is he wasn't Hillary Clinton, who Putin hated and wanted to harm in any possible way, and so he was her opponent, so necessarily they supported him.

	And then also this second notion that the intelligence community assessed that Putin believed he would be more able to make deals, reach agreements with someone with a business background than with someone who'd grown up in more of a government environment.

Different from what Comey said last hearing? then he made it sound like Putin preferred Trump because he didn't want Clinton to win.


------

	FRANKEN: Yes. Well, in order for us to know for certain whether President Trump would be vulnerable to that type of exploitation, we would have to understand his financial situation. We'd have to know whether or not he has money tied up in Russia, or obligations to Russian entities, do you agree?

	COMEY: That you would need to understand that to evaluate that question? I don't know.

Didn't Clapper basically confirm an investigation into Trump's money ties with Putin?


------

Flake talking about 702 and unmasking


------

	SEN. CHRIS COONS, D-DEL.: Thank you, Chairman Grassley, thank you, Director Comey, for your service and for your return in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee.

	I want to start by asking about a letter -- and Mr. Chairman, I'll submit this for the record, if I might. Senator Whitehouse and I in early of August last year sent a letter to our colleague, Senator Cruz, who then served as the Oversight Subcommittee chairman, expressing our grave concern about the potential for foreign interference in our upcoming presidential election.

	We asked for an oversight hearing to consider whether existing federal criminal statutes and court jurisdiction were sufficient to address conduct related to foreign entities posing a threat to our election. We didn't have that hearing, but I'd like to ask you that same question now. Are existing federal criminal statutes sufficient to prosecute conduct related to foreign entities that seek to undermine our elections?

	COMEY: I think so is my answer. But someone smarter than I may have spotted something where there's a gap. But my reaction is we have the statutory tools. It's a question of gathering the evidence and then applying it under those statutory tools.


I didn't know they did that.

But Coons maybe asking is it too easy for illegals to get away with it?

	COONS: Well, in response to questions from Senator Sasse and Senator Graham earlier, you stated that you fully expect Russia to continue to be engaged in efforts to influence our elections and you expect them to be back in 2018 and 2020. What more should we be doing both to defend our election infrastructure and our future elections against continuing Russian interference?

	And what more are you doing -- is the agency doing to help our allies in countries like France and Germany that have upcoming elections where there's every reason to believe the Russians are actively interfering there as well?

	COMEY: Thank you, Senator. I think two things we can do and that we are doing, both in the United States and with our allies is telling the people responsible for protecting the election infrastructure in the United States, everything we know about how the Russian's and others try to attack those systems, how they might come at it, what IP addresses they might use, what phishing techniques they might use and then we've shared the same thing with our allies that one.

	Two, to equip the American people and our allies to understand that this going on because a big part of what the Russians did was pushing out false information, echoing it with these troll farms that they use and I think one of the most important things we can do is tell the American voter this is going on.

	You should be skeptical, you should ask questions, you should understand the nature of the news that you're getting and we've delivered that same message to our European colleagues, and an interesting thing is happening, the marketplace of ideas is responding to this.

	Because it's not a role for government, people are out there using the power of social media to push back against this kind of thing in France, in the Netherlands, in Germany and I hope it will happen here in the United States, where ordinary citizens will see this bogus stuff going on and push back -- kind of have good troll armies pushing back the other way. So the market place of information is better educated frankly.


Comey talking about protecting election systems and teach public to protect themselves against propaganda


------

	COONS: Well, it's an optimistic vision and I appreciate it. And I also appreciate the work the FBI continues to do to push back and to strengthen our defenses. But I think there's more to do. You certainly, as you've testified before made a great deal of news just before our own election. And I'm struck that you chose to make public statements about one investigation and not another.

	The investigation we now know that was ongoing into the Trump campaign and the investigation ongoing into Secretary Clinton. I'm concerned about what the future practice will be. How has the approach taken with regard to the Clinton investigation been memorialized and have you modified in any way, FBI or department procedures regarding disclosure of information concerning investigations particularly close to an election?

	COMEY: We have not. And the reason for that is, everything that we did -- that I did, was in my view consistent with existing Department of Justice policy. That is we don't confirm the existence of investigations except in unusual circumstances.

	We don't talk about closed -- we don't talk about investigations that don't result in criminal charges unless there is a compelling public interest. And so those principles should still govern. We also whenever humanly possible avoid any action that might have an impact on an election. I still believe that to be true and an incredibly important guiding principle. It's one that I labored under here.

	Frankly as I said earlier, I didn't think I had a choice, because I could only have two actions. Before me I couldn't find a door labeled no action. So those principles still exist,they're incredibly important. The current investigation with respect to Russia, we've confirmed it.

	The Department of Justice has authorized me to confirm that it exists. We're not going to say another word about it until we're done. Then I hope in league with the Department of Justice, we'll figure out if it doesn't result in charges, what if anything will we say about it and we'll be guided by the same principles.


So Comey views sending the letter or not each as taking an action


------


	COONS: Well, Director, I do think there was a third door available to you in late year just before the election and that was to confirm the existence of an ongoing investigation about the Trump campaign, which I think was of compelling interest and was an unusual circumstance, an activity by a known adversary to interfere in our election.

	Had there been public notice that there was renewed investigation into both campaigns, I think the impact would have been different, would you agree?

	COONS: No. I thought a lot about this and my judgment was a counter -- we have to separate two things. I thought it was very important to call out what the Russians were trying to do with our election. And I offered in August myself to be a voice for that in a public piece calling it out. The Obama administration didn't take advantage of that August. They did it in October, but I thought that was very important to call out.

	That's a separate question from -- do you confirm the existence of a classified investigation that has just started to try and figure out are there any connections between that Russian activity and U.S. persons that started in late July and remember, the Hillary Clinton investigation, we didn't confirm it existed until three months after it started and started publicly.

	So I thought the consistent principle would be, we don't confirm the existence of certainly any investigation that involves a U.S. person but a classified investigation in its early stages, we don't know what we have, what is there. And so I -- my judgment was consistent with the principles I've always operated under, that was the right thing to do. Separately, I thought it was very important to callout and tell the American people the Russians are trying to mess with your elections.


So Comey confirms that he offered to write the op-ed in August but Obama refused


------


	KENNEDY: Is there an investigation with respect to the two of them?

	COMEY: There was, it is -- we completed it.

	KENNEDY: Why did you conclude neither of them committed a crime?

	COMEY: Because with respect to Ms. Abedin in particular, we -- we didn't have any indication that she had a sense that what she was doing was in violation of the law. Couldn't prove any sort of criminal intent. Really, the central problem we have with the whole e-mail investigation was proving that people knew -- the secretary and others knew that they were doing -- that they were communicating about classified information in a way that they shouldn't be and proving that they had some sense of their doing something unlawful. That was our burden and we weren't able to meet it.

	KENNEDY: So she thought it was OK to send her husband the information?


Comey saying couldn't find intent to charge Abedin or Wiener with mishandling classified info


------

	KENNEDY: Alll right, well, let me try it this way. Let's assume that I'm not a United States Senator, I'm working for a presidential campaign, and I'm contacted by an Russian agent who says I've got some hacked e-mails here and I want to visit with you about them. Am I committing a crime?

	COMEY: Also, senator, I think I should resist answering that hypothetical.


Why is Kennedy asking this?


------

	COMEY: I have to respectfully disagree with your characterization of my intention as chastising or editorializing. My goal was to say what is true. What did we do, what did we find, what do we think about it and I tried to be as complete and fair as I could be and tell the truth about what we found and what we think about it and what we're recommending...


	...HIRONO: I'm just wondering why you...

	COMEY: I knew there would be ramifications. I just tried not to care about them. I knew there'd be a huge storm that would come, but I tried to say what is the right thing to do in this case? HIRONO: Yes, the right thing would've been that you did not have enough evidence to bring about criminal charges, and that should've been the end of it I would I think. I don't understand why you chose to go forward with all kinds of characterizations about her actions


So Hirno and Comey kindof arguing, Comey says he was telling the truth and Hiron asking why characterize Clinton's actions


------

	Let me turn to the Trump administration's vetting and security clearances in that process. In recent days, there have been numerous reports of Trump administration officials failing to disclose foreign contacts in their security clearance forms. What is the role of the FBI invading the security clearances of White House personnel, if any?

	COMEY: Well, sometimes the FBI is assigned to do background checks on people who are coming into government in the executive office of the president. Other times, not. A lot of times there are people who are arriving with clearances that already exist.

	HIRONO: So in the case of the Trump administration officials and there have been a number of them, was the FBI asked to participate in the vetting process?

	COMEY: The FBI has done background checks for some appointees in the Trump administration.

	HIRONO: Can you disclose who these appointees were or are?

	COMEY: I can't -- I'm not comfortable sitting right here, I don't know them for sure, but I shouldn't talk about individuals in an open forum, at least without thinking about it better.

	HIRONO: What would be the consequences for a White House staffer or personnel who fails to disclose their foreign contacts on a security clearance forum?

	COMEY: Well, hard to say, it could include losing your clearances. If conduct is intentional, it could subject some of the criminal liability. HIRONO: And is that something that the Department of Justice would investigate and pursue?

	COMEY: Potentially, it -- I think it would depend upon who owned the clearance as well. In the first instance, it might be another part of the intelligence community.

	HIRONO: So, since there have been these concerns raised about the clearances not appropriately vetted, is there an ongoing FBI investigation into what happened with the vetting process and whether any crimes may have been committed?

	COMEY: It's not something I can comment on sitting here.


asking about the FBI background checks into Trump associates. The Trump staff who didn't disclose Russia ties could be liable to criminal investigations from FBI

------

	CRUZ: Let me ask you about one specific terror attack, which is on May 15th, on -- in May of 2015, the terrorist attack in Garland Texas, where two terrorist open fire on a peaceful gathering and thankfully no innocent people were killed, thanks to the heroic action of Garland police officer Greg Steven's who fatally shot the two terrorists.

	But a security officer was shot in the leg and it could have been much -- much worse. At the time of the incident, you stated publicly that the FBI did not know that the terrorists were on their way to the event and that -- or that they planned on attacking the event. Recently there have been media reports suggesting otherwise. Specifically media reports that have stated that an undercover FBI agent was in close communication with the two terrorists in the weeks leading up to the attack, explicitly discussed plans for the attack and was in a car directly behind the two terrorists outside the event and took photos of the terrorists moment before the attack but then left the scene when the shooting began and that that agent was detained by the garland police.

	Are those media reports correct?

	COMEY: No. I stand by what I said originally. I can't go into the details of it here, because they're classified, but I think a fair thing to say is the media reports are highly misleading. And in a classified setting I could explain to you how.


Interesting, FBI agent reportedly knew of a terrorist attack, was present, didn't stop it. Comey says this is misleading.


------

BLUMENTHAL: And you have not, to my knowledge, ruled out anyone in the Trump campaign as potentially a target of that criminal investigation, correct?

COMEY: Well, I haven't said anything publicly about who we've opened investigations on, I briefed the chair and ranking on who those people are. And so I can't -- I can't go beyond that in this setting.


Comey breifed Chair and Rank of the Judicial Committee on who FBI is investigating?


------

But for exactly that reason, because of the appearance of a potential conflict of interest, isn't this situation absolutely crying out for a special prosecutor?

COMEY: That's a judgment for the -- the deputy attorney general, the acting attorney general on this matter and -- and not something I should comment on.


how does that make sense? Isn't a special prosecutor needed when the AG in particular has a conflict of interest? AG can just pick someone else with a conflict of interest...


------

I think that you said that there were some -- that there were ongoing investigations on homeland -- on Homeland Security potential terrorist, either home grown or foreign inspired investigations in every state. Is that still the case?

COMEY: Yes.

TILLIS: Do you have roughly an -- can you give me roughly an idea of the number of investigations that is?

COMEY: Yes it's just north of 1,000.


Comey confirms there are at least 1,000 terrorists in the U.S.


------

COMEY: And I -- I -- I've lived my whole life caring about the credibility and the integrity of the criminal justice process, that the American people believe it to be and that it be in fact fair, independent and honest. And so what I struggled with in the spring of last year was how do we credibly complete the investigation of Hillary Clinton's e-mails if we conclude there's no case there?

The normal way to do it would be to the Department of Justice announce it. And I struggled as we got closer to the end of it with the -- a number things had gone on, some of which I can't talk about yet, that made me worry that the department leadership could not credibly complete the investigation and declined prosecution without grievous damage to the American people's confidence in the -- in the justice system.

And then the capper was -- and I'm not picking on the -- the Attorney General Loretta Lynch, who I like very much -- but her meeting with President Clinton on that airplane was the capper for me. And I then said, you know what, the department cannot by itself credibly end this. The best chance we have as a justice system is if I do something I never imagined before, step away from them and tell the American people, look, here's what the FBI did, here's what we found, here's what we think. And that that offered us the best chance of the American people believing in the system, that it was done in a credible way.

That was a hard call for me to make to the call the attorney general that morning and say I'm about to do a press conference and I'm not going to tell you what I'm going to say. And I said to her, hope someday you'll understand why I think I have to do this. But look, I wasn't loving this.

I knew this would be disastrous for me personally, but I thought this is the best way to protect these institutions that we care so much about. And having done that, and then having testified repeatedly under oath we're done, this was done in a credible way, there's no there there.


So Comey saying the credibility issues of DOJ motivated going public


------

That when the Anthony Weiner thing landed on me on October 27 and there was a huge -- this is what people forget -- new step to be taken, we may be finding the golden missing e-mails that would change this case. If I were not to speak about that, it would be a disastrous, catastrophic concealment.

It was an incredibly painful choice, but actually not all that hard between very bad and catastrophic. I had to tell Congress that we were taking these additional steps. I prayed to find a third door. I couldn't find it. Two actions speak or conceal. I don't think many reasonable people would do it differently than I did, no matter what they say today.

If you were standing there staring at that on October 28, would you really conceal that. So I spoke. Again, the design was to act credibly, independently and honestly so the American people know the system's not rigged in any way. And that's why I felt transparency was the best path in July.

And that I wasn't seeking transparency. In October, I sent that letter only to the chairs and rankings. Yes, did I know they really going to leak it? Of course, I know how Congress works, but I did not make an announcement at that point.

And then my amazing people moved heaven and earth to do what was impossible to get through those e-mails by working 24 hours a day and then said, honestly, sir, we found tons of new stuff doesn't change our view. And I said, are you sure, don't do it just because you're under pressure.

They said, we're sure, we don't believe there's a case against Hillary Clinton. I said, then by God, I got to tell Congress that and know I'm going to get a storm at me for that. But what I can promise you all along is I said to people, you may think we're idiots, we're honest people.

We made judgments trying to do the right thing and I believe, even with hindsight, we made the right decisions. And I'm sorry for that long answer.


Is he saying that his Oct 27 email was motivated by credibility of Justice System too? e.g if it turns out Clinton guilty, then she wins, then that is revealed, angry Trump supporters overthrow the government or something

------

Comey has bladder of Stone


------


Want me to repeat it? Do FBI policies allow it to pay an outside investigator for work that another source is also paying that investigator for?

COMEY: I don't know for sure as I sit here. Possibly is my answer. But I'll get you a precise answer.

GRASSLEY: In writing?

COMEY: Sure.


Grassley really insistent on this question about FBI policies in paying for outside investigators


------

Feinstein talking about laws and such


------

Lee talking about browsing history and 702


------

Leahy asks about Muslim ban comment by Trump, Comey declines to comment


------

WHITEHOUSE: It has been disclosed and publicly reported that there was a two day interval, between the FBI interview of Michael Flynn related to his conversations with Ambassador Kislyak and then deputy attorney general's report to White House Counsel about those calls.

Did you participate in conversations related to this matter during that two day interval and what can you tell us about why that interval took two days, was there some standard operating procedure that needed to be vindicated? Was there -- you'd think that that could've flipped over to a conversation to the White House a good deal quicker than that once the agent's report came back from the interview.

COMEY: Yes, I don't -- I don't know whether two days is right. I think it might have been a day. I could be wrong. It could have been two days. And I did participate in conversations about that matter, and I think I'll stop there because I don't ...

WHITEHOUSE: OK.

COMEY: ... I don't know the department's position on -- on speaking about those communications.


So Comey was informed about the Flynn matter, there was some kind of procedure before the WH could be informed?


------

WHITEHOUSE: But as you sit here, you don't have any hesitation about that delay, about it representing any kind of, you know, mischief or misconduct?

COMEY: No, no and given your experience you know how this works. An agent conducts an interview, they're going back, they write up a 302, they show it to their partner, they make sure they get it right, then they produce the 302, so sometimes it's the next day before it's finished.

WHITEHOUSE: So the deputy -- Ms. Yates would have seen the 302, and that process would've taken place by the time she went up to see White House counsel McGahn?

COMEY: I think that's right, yes.


But Yates testified she didn't get a 302

What happened there?


------

WHITEHOUSE: So let me offer you this hypothetical. They come to you and say the metadata shows that we have potential information here that could be relevant and could cause us to reopen the information.

It would seem to me that it would be as sensible at that moment to say how quickly can you get a search warrant and how quickly can we get an answer that question because I made a promise to people in Congress that I would get back to them with this information.

And if there's anything real here, you need to get on that pronto so that I can answer that question, so that the search warrant precedes the letter rather than the letter preceding the search warrant, particularly in light of the widely adhered to policy the department not to disclose ongoing investigative materials. And their truly exceptional nature of disclosures. Why not the search warrant first?

COMEY: Well I pressed him very hard on that. And found credible their responses that there was no way -- no way they could review the volume of information they saw on the laptop in the time remaining.

WHITEHOUSE: Except that they did.


something to look into--what was up with search warrant? why not get a warrant before sending the letter?


------

HIRONO: Thank you. As mentioned earlier, Director in March President issued a revised refugees and visa ban executive order that suspended entry into the U.S. from six majority Muslim countries. The suspicion was this suspension was largely premised on the claim that quote more than 300 person who entered the United States are refugees are currently the subjects of counter terrorism investigations by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, end quote. Can you provide any additional information on whether the persons under investigation are from the six countries subject to the suspension? And are these persons exclusively from the six countries subject to the suspension. And if not what other countries are represented among the population that is currently under investigation?

COMEY: I'm sure we can provide you. What I can tell you here is I think -- I think about a third of them are -- are from the six countries -- so 300. About a third of them are from the six countries. I think two thirds of those were from the seventh country Iraq that was not included. But I'll make sure my staff get to the precise numbers Senator.

HIRONO: So Iraq is the only other country that was not among the six targeted countries?

COMEY: I think that's right. Obviously as you ask it I'm wondering whether I'm wrong and so I'll get you the precise numbers.

HIRONO: Thank you.

COMEY: But I -- I think it was refugees about 300 about a third from the six countries. And about two thirds from Iraq. That's my ...


So most of the people who came in which were a "danger to the U.S." weren't even from the countries targetted by the ban...


------
	COMEY: ...I'm talking about a situation where we were told to stop something for a political reason, that would be a very big deal. It's not happened in my experience.


seems pretty clear, Comey has never been asked to stop an investigation "for political reasons."


------

BLUMENTHAL: But the decision about prosecuting would be made by their boss, I think is the word you used correct?

COMEY: Correct.

BLUMENTHAL: And that would probably be right now the Deputy Attorney General correct? COMEY: Correct. In a matter of a complexity and significance, the ultimate decision in practice is almost always made at the highest level in the Department which would be Rod Rosenstein.


------
