http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	The FBI is honest. The FBI is strong. And the FBI is and always will be independent.

Sure--the FBI corrected his crummy testimony, didn't they?

Seems like Comey wants the FBI to like him?

	BURR: Are you confident that no votes cast in the 2016 presidential election were altered?

	COMEY: I'm confident. When I left as director I had seen no indication of that whatsoever.

Was this reviewed?


	BURR: Director Comey, did the president at any time ask you to stop the FBI investigation into Russian involvement in the 2016 U.S. Elections?

	COMEY: Not to my understanding, no. 


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/16/us/politics/james-comey-trump-flynn-russia-investigation.html?_r=0
	Comey Memo Says Trump Asked Him to End Flynn Investigation

	By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

What about the Flynn investigation?


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	BURR: Director, when the president requested that you, and I quote "Let Flynn go," General Flynn had an unreported contact with the Russians, which is an offense, and if press accounts are right, there might have been discrepancies between facts and his FBI testimony. In your estimation, was general Flynn at that time in serious legal jeopardy, and in addition to that, do you sense that the president was trying to obstruct justice or just seek for a way for Mike Flynn to save face, given that he had already been fired?

	COMEY: General Flynn at that point in time was in legal jeopardy. There was an open FBI criminal investigation of his statements in connection with the Russian contacts, and the contacts themselves, and so that was my assessment at the time. I don't think it's for me to say whether the conversation I had with the president was an effort to obstruct. I took it as a very disturbing thing, very concerning, but that's a conclusion I'm sure the special counsel will work towards to try and understand what the intention was there, and whether that's an offense. 

Comey punts to Mueller


	BURR: Director, Comey, you have been criticized publicly for the decision to present your findings on the email investigation directly to the American people. Have you learned anything since that time that would have changed what you said or how you chose to inform the American people?

	COMEY: Honestly, no. It caused a whole lot of personal pain for me but as I look back, given what I knew at the time and even what I've learned since, I think it was the best way to try to protect the justice institution, including the FBI. 

Why is Burr asking him this? Wasn't Comey asked this before?

	BURR: At what point would that recruitment become a counterintelligence threat to our country?

	COMEY: Again, difficult to answer in the abstract, but when a foreign power is using especially coercion, or some sort of pressure to try and co-opt an American, especially a government official, to act on its behalf, that's a serious concern to the FBI and at the heart of the FBI's counterintelligence mission. 

Talking about co-opting government officials

	BURR: So if you've got a 36-page document of specific claims that are out there, the FBI would have to for counter intelligence reasons, try to verify anything that might be claimed in there, one, and probably first and foremost, is the counterintelligence concerns that we have about blackmail. Would that be an accurate statement?

	COMEY: Yes. If the FBI receives a credible allegation that there is some effort to co-opt, coerce, direct, employee covertly an American on behalf of the foreign power, that's the basis on which a counterintelligence investigation is opened. 

But also said iirc no investigation of Trump (while Comey was there)--so Comey is saying the steele dossier allegation isn't credible?

	BURR: And in that time frame, there were more than the DNC and the D triple C that were targets?

	COMEY: Correct, a massive effort to target government and non-governmental, near governmental agencies like non-profits.

	BURR: What would be the estimate of how many entities out there the Russians specifically targeted in that time frame?

	COMEY: It's hundreds. I suppose it could be more than 1,000, but it's at least hundreds.

	BURR: When did you become aware that data had been efiltrated?

	COMEY: I'm not sure exactly. I think either late '15 or early '16. 

mentioning Russians have hacked all your shit (but hey its out there already)

	BURR: Let me go back if I can very briefly to the decision to publicly go out with your results on the email. Was your decision influenced by the attorney general's tarmac meeting with the former president, Bill Clinton?

	COMEY: Yes. In ultimately conclusive way that was the thing that capped it for me, that I had to do something separately to protect the credibility of the investigation, which meant both the FBI and the justice department.

	BURR: Were there other things that contributed to that, that you can describe in an open session?

	COMEY: There were other things that contributed to that. One significant item I can't but know the committee's been briefed on, there's been some public accounts of it which are nonsense but I understand the committee has been briefed on the classified facts. Probably the only other consideration that I guess I can talk about in open setting is that at one point the attorney general had directed me not to call it an investigation, but instead to call it a matter, which confused me and concerned me, but that was one of the bricks in the load that led me to conclude I have to step away from the department if we're to close this case credibly. 


Comey saying Lynch was downplaying the investigation, asked him to call it a "matter," which made him suspicious of her

	WARNER: Thank you, director Comey, again, for your service. Your comments to your FBI family, I know were heartfelt. Know that there are some in the administration who tried to smear your reputation. 

interesting Warner mentions that

	You had Acting Director McCabe in public testimony a few weeks back, and in public testimony yesterday reaffirm that the vast majority in FBI community had great trust in your leadership, and obviously trust in your integrity.

McCabe testifies that FBI trusts Comey's leadership and integrity (is this true? I remember Hosko nervous telling fox news that FBI was divided over Comey, although a fox news interview is very different from testifying under oath...)

	Now you've had extensive experience at the department of justice and at the FBI. You've worked under presidents of both parties. What was about that meeting that led you to determine that you needed to start putting down a written record?

	COMEY: A combination of things. I think the circumstances, the subject matter, and the person I was interacting with. Circumstances, first, I was alone with the president of the United States, or the president-elect, soon to be president. The subject matter I was talking about matters that touch on the FBI's core responsibility, and that relate to the president, president-elect personally, and then the nature of the person. I was honestly concerned he might lie about the nature of our meeting so I thought it important to document. 


Interesting--but can Comey lie about the meeting too?

apparently FBI directors need tape recorders



	WARNER: I think that's a very important statement you just made. Then, unlike your dealings with presidents of either parties in your past experience, in every subsequent meeting or conversation with this president, you created a written record. Did you feel that you needed to create this written record of these memos, because they might need to be relied on at some future date?

	COMEY: Sure. I created records after conversations that I think I did it after each of our nine conversations. If I didn't, I did it for nearly all of them especially the ones that were substantive. I knew there might come a day when I would need a record of what had happened, not just to defend myself, but to defend the FBI and our integrity as an institution and the Independence of our investigative function. That's what made this so difficult is it was a combination of circumstances, subject matter and the particular person.

"our integrity"? you got fired dude

if he really wanted to, maybe a recorder is better?

although is that illegal? but I mean like, if the written memo of an FBI agent is admissible in court, why not just let them wear a wire everywhere anyway?

It seems like a problem if a Russian spy ends up in the FBI.

or leading the FBI

	WARNER: And so in all your experience, this was the only president that you felt like in every meeting you needed to document because at some point, using your words, he might put out a non-truthful representation of that meeting.

	COMEY: That's right, senator. As I said, as FBI director I interacted with President Obama, I spoke only twice in three years, and didn't document it. When I was Deputy Attorney General I had a one one-on-one with President Bush been I sent an email to my staff but I didn't feel with president bush the need to document it in that I way. Again, because of the combination of those factors, just wasn't present with either President Bush or President Obama. 

that is weird--memo for Trump but not for Bush

	you should be prepared to assure then President-elect Trump that the FBI was not investigating him personally. Now, I understand that your leadership team, agreed with that but was that a unanimous decision? Was there any debate about that?

	COMEY: Wasn't unanimous. One of the members of the leadership team had a view you that although it was technically true we did not have a counter-intelligence file case open on then President-elect Trump. His concern was because we're looking at the potential, again, that's the subject of the investigation, coordination between the campaign and Russia, because it was President Trump, President-elect Trump's campaign, this person's view was inevitably his behavior, his conduct will fall within the scope of that work. And so he was reluctant to make the statement. I disagreed. I thought it was fair to say what was literally true. There was not a counterintelligence investigation of Mr. Trump, and I decided in the moment to say it, given the nature of our conversation.

	WARNER: At that moment in time, did you ever revisit that as in the subsequent sessions?

	COMEY: With the FBI leadership team? Sure. And the leader had that view that didn't change. His view was still that it was probably although literally true, his concern was it could be misleading, because the nature of the investigation was such that it might well touch, obviously it would touch, the campaign, and the person that headed the campaign would be the candidate, and so that was his view throughout. 

Comey throwing out there possibility that Trump could become under counterintelligence investigation

says a lot actually? basically Comey is giving credence to the idea that Trump could have done something improper regarding Russia (although I mean everyone thinks that already)


	What was your impression, and what did you mean by this notion of a patronage relationship?

	COMEY: Well, my impression, and again it's my impression, I could always be wrong but my common sense told me what was going on is, either he had concluded or someone had told him that you didn't, you've already asked Comey to stay, and you didn't get anything for it.

sure he did! the oct 28 letter. Trump praised Comey for that


	And that the dinner was an effort to build a relationship, in fact, he asked specifically, of loyalty in the context of asking me to stay. As I said, what was odd about that is we'd already talked twice about it by that point and he said I very much hope you'll stay. In fact, I just remembered sitting a third, when you've seen the. IC tour of me walking across the blue room, and what the president whispered in my ear was "I really look forward to working with you." So after those encounters -- 

Comey makes it sound more like Trump was worried Comey would leave...

Putting out some political rorsach tests


	WARNER: That was a few days before your firing.

	COMEY: On the Sunday after the inauguration. The next Friday I have dinner and the president begins by wanting to talk about my job and so I'm sitting there thinking wait a minute three times we've already, you've already asked me to stay or talked about me staying. My common sense, again I could be wrong but my common sense told me what's going on here is, he's looking to get something in exchange for granting my request to stay in the job. 

Would really be nice to hear tapes...

$10 says Comey took shitty ambiguous notes


Interesting that Trump asked AG to leave to have private meeting with Comey (Feb 14)

Sounds like Comey intended for memo of this convorsation to be made public? decided not to classify it (you can do that?)


	SEN. JAMES RISCH: Thank you very much. Mr. Comey, thank you for your service. America needs more like you and we really appreciate it. Yesterday, I got and everybody got the seven pages of your direct testimony that is now a part of the record here. And the first -- I read it, and then I read it again, and all I could think was number one, how much hated the class of legal writing when I was in law school, and you are the guy that probably got the A after reading this. I find it clear. I find it concise, and having been a prosecutor for a number of years and handling hundreds, maybe thousands of cases and read police reports, investigative reports, this is as good as it gets, and I really appreciate that. Not only the conciseness and the clearness of it, but also the fact that you have things that were written down contemporaneously when they happened, and you actually put them in quotes so we know exactly what happened and we're not getting some rendition of it that's in your mind.

	COMEY: Thank you, sir.

	RISCH: You're to be complimented. 


Risch--the guy who acts like an obvious Russian spy--gushing over Comey

saying that Feb 14th report is inaccurate


	COMEY: Again, those words are not an order.

	RISCH: He said, I hope.

once again--- "I hope you can let this go" could be an apology...


	RISCH: You don't know of anyone ever being charged for hoping something, is that a fair statement?

	COMEY: I don't as I sit here.

	RISCH: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Risch throwing shade on Trump

and nobody talks about abuse of power for firing Yates...


	COMEY: I guess I don't know for sure. I believe -- I think the president, at his word, that I was fired because of the Russia investigation

oh God--what did Trump mean about "that Russia thing?" was it blackmail? something that happened with Coemy?

actually idk probably not?

http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/12/politics/trump-comey-russia-thing/index.html

"when I did this now--I probably maybe will confuse people"

"when I decided to do it I said to myself--I said you know--this Rushser thing with Trump and Russia it's a made up story it's an excuse for the democrats for having lost an election that they should have won

ok maybe

"This Rusher thing with Trump and Russia"

But Comey testifies all Trump cares about is the dossier allegations

Is that what he was talking about?

Or was he talking about the investigation into his campaign?

ok probably the campaign--"it's an excuse for the democrats for having lost an election"

Trump sounds like he's dodging question of asking Rosenstein for a reccomendation

"I was going to fire regardless of reccmomendation"

And Trump was very particular in pointing out "I greatly appreciate you telling me on three separate occasions that I am not under investigation"

Trump really cares about "being under investigation" which he seems to equate with the dossier?



Trump: Regardless of this reccomendation, I was going to fire Comey, knowing there was no good time to do it. And in fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, you know this Rusher thing with Trump and Russia it's a made up story it's an excuse for the democrats for having lost an election


Were you angry at Comey because of the Russia investigation?

Trump...No look, let me tell you, as far as I'm concerned, I absolutely want this thing to be done properly


Ok, maybe Trump was trying to say "there's no good time to fire Comey" because of the Russia investigation, then segues without much thought at all into "you know the Russia investigation is an EXCUSE by DEMOCRATS for LOSING"

"And in fact" as in Trump was adding to the "no good time to do it point"--e.g. not only is it hard to fire the FBI director while your campaign is under investigation, I was thinking the investigation is bullshit anyway!

woops!


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295

	FEINSTEIN: Do you believe the Russia investigation played a role?

	COMEY: In why I was fired?

	FEINSTEIN: Yes.

	COMEY: Yes. I've seen the president say so. 

talking about that interview? Comey says "I've watched the interviews" (maybe I should have...)


	FEINSTEIN: Let's go to the Flynn issue. The senator outlined, “I hope you could see your way to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go.” But you also said in your written remarks, and I quote, that you “had understood the president to be requesting that we drop any investigation of Flynn in connection with false statements about his conversations with the Russian ambassador in December,”. Please go into that with more detail.

	COMEY: Well, the context and the president's word are what led me to that conclusion. As I said in my statement, I could be wrong, but Flynn had been forced to resign the day before. And the controversy around general Flynn at that point in time was centered on whether he lied to the vice president about his nature of conversations with the Russians, whether he had been candid with others in the course of that. So that happens on the day before. On the 1, the president makes reference to that. I understood what he wanted me to do was drop any investigation connected to Flynn's account of his conversations with the Russians. 

confusing..

So the context was controversy that Flynn lied to VP

So is that the "this" Flynn was talking about?

Comey understood "this" as the investigation (since Comey is FBI director)

~~or~~

One of the KGB agents near Trump tells him:

TRUMP! We have new intel on Comey (great guy by the way you really need his favor)--he says he's pissed that you didn't fire Flynn right away after he lied to the VP. He might quit out of anger like he did with Bush!

or something like that

problem is ambiguous like is Trump apologizing for something or making a request for Comey to drop an investigation


	FEINSTEIN: Now, here's the question, you're big. You're strong. I know the oval office, and I know what happens to people when they walk in. There is a certain amount of intimidation. But why didn't you stop and say, Mr. President, this is wrong. I cannot discuss this with you.

	COMEY: It's a great question. Maybe if I were stronger, I would have. I was so stunned by the conversation that I just took in. The only thing I could think to say, because I was playing in my mind -- because I could remember every word he said -- I was playing in my mind, what should my response be? That's why I carefully chose the words. Look, I've seen the tweet about tapes. Lordy, I hope there are tapes. I remember saying, “I agree he is a good guy,” as a way of saying, I'm not agreeing with what you asked me to do. Again, maybe other people would be stronger in that circumstance. That's how Ed myself. I hope I'll never have another opportunity. Maybe if I did it again, I'd do it better. 

Comey crumples, admits he is weak

but seriously, sounds possibly off? like Comey wanted him to keep talking? wouldn't be a bad thing if Trump were under investigation, but Comey testified that he wasn't

"Lordy, I hope there are tapes"

seriously

	FEINSTEIN: You describe two phone calls that you received from president trump. One on March 30th and one on April 11. He, quote, described the Russia investigation as a cloud that was impairing his ability, end quote, as president, and asked you, quote, to lift the cloud, end quote. How did you interpret that? What did you believe he wanted you to do?

	COMEY: I interpreted that as he was frustrated that the Russia investigation was taking up so much time and energy. I think he meant of the executive branch, but in the public square in general. It was making it difficult for him to focus on other priorities of his. But what he asked me was actually narrowing than that. I think what he meant by the cloud -- and, again, I could be wrong -- but the entire investigation is taking up oxygen and making it hard for me to focus on what I want to focus on. The ask was to get it out that I, the president, am not personally under investigation.

Comey "thinks but could be wrong" that the "cloud" refers to the entire Russia investigation

this sounds very loose...

	FEINSTEIN: You told the president, I would see what we could do. What did you mean?

	COMEY: It was kind of a cowardly way of trying to avoid telling him, we're not going to do that. That I would see what we could do. It was a way of kind of getting off the phone, frankly, and then I turned and handed it to the acting deputy attorney general. 

Comey, disgraced, embraces his cowardice


Or did Comey tell Trump "I will see what we can do" to put an idea in his head?


http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/07/politics/james-comey-memos-testimony/index.html
	He finished by stressing "the cloud" that was interfering with his ability to make deals for the country and said he hoped I could find a way to get out that he wasn't being investigated. I told him I would see what we could do, and that we would do our investigative work well and as quickly as we could.

hmmm... ties the "cloud" to "being investigated"... what exactly did Trump ask Comey?

theorized before Trump asked him to lift blackmail problem

but I guess this could make Trump think Comey was on his side, whatever Trump asked


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295

	FEINSTEIN: So I want to go into that. Who did you talk with about that, lifting the cloud, stop the investigation back at the FBI, and what was their response?

	COMEY: The FBI, during one of the two conversations -- I'm not remembering exactly -- I think the first, my chief of staff was sitting in front of me and heard my end of the conversation because the president's call was a surprise. I discussed the lifting the cloud and the request with the senior leadership team who, typically, and I think in all the circumstances, was the deputy director, my chief of staff, the general counsel, the deputy director's chief counsel and, I think in a number of circumstances, the number three in the FBI and a few of the conversations included the head of the national security branch. The group of us that lead the FBI when it comes to national security. 

Trump discussed the "lifting of the cloud" and "the request" with a bunch of senior leadership


	FEINSTEIN: You have the president of the United States asking you to stop an investigation that is an important investigation. What was the response of your colleagues?

	COMEY: I think they were as shocked and troubled by it as I was. Some said things that led me to believe that. I don't remember exactly. But the reaction was similar to mine. They're all experienced people who never experienced such a thing, so they were very concerned. Then the conversation turned to about, so what should we do with this information? That was a struggle for us. Because we are the leaders of the FBI, so it's been reported to us, and I heard it and now shared it with the leaders of the FBI, our conversation was, should we share this with any senior officials at the justice department? Our primary concern was, we can't infect the investigative team. We don't want the agents and analysts working on this to know the president of the united States has asked, and when it comes from the president, I took it as a direction, to get rid of this investigation because we're not going to follow that request. So we decided, we have to keep it away from our troops.


Ok Comey saying he clearly interpreted it as a request to end investigation, and at least implies "ending the investigation" was discussed. So maybe not too much word games in this answer? too much word game would be sleazy, even for Comey


But it sounds like Comey is saying he did notify people of a request to end the investigation

well wait, Comey says "I too think it as a direction"

Maybe not everyone in leadership did?


	COMEY: Yes.

	RUBIO: And in that meeting, as you understood it, he was asking not about the general Russia investigation, he was asking specifically about the jeopardy that Flynn was in himself?

	COMEY: That's how I understood it. Yes, sir. 

legal jeoprady?

	RUBIO: As you perceived it, while he hoped you did away with it, you perceived it as an order, given the setting, the position and some of the circumstances?

	COMEY: Yes. 

right, so the idea here in a lot of these is Trump is subtly trying to influence the investigation

but his words might be up for interpretation (and then of course heavily politicized in the media, making the impeachment a nightmare)


	RUBIO: At the time, did you say something to the president about, that is not an appropriate request, or did you tell the white house counsel, it's not an appropriate request? Someone needs to tell the president he can't do these things.

	COMEY: I didn't, no.

	RUBIO: Why?

	COMEY: I don't know. I think -- as I said earlier, I think the circumstances were such that it was -- I was a bit stunned and didn't have the presence of mind. I don't know. I don't want to make you sound like I'm captain courageous. I don't know if I would have said to the president with the presence of mind, sir, that's wrong. In the moment, it didn't come to my mind. What came to my mind is be careful what you say. I said, I agree Flynn is a good guy. 

comes up multiple times--why does Comey let this happen? and Comey makes up what sounds like an excuse

	RUBIO: On the cloud, we keep talking about this cloud, you perceive the cloud to be the Russian investigation in general?

	COMEY: Yes, sir. 


but his own statement makes it sound like the "cloud" was blackmail...

heh, was that Comey's statement at all? would be funny if someone ghost-wrote it and leaked it for him

	RUBIO: What he was asking you to do, would you have done here today?

	COMEY: Correct. Yes, sir. 

really? eh...


	RUBIO: To be clear, for you to make a public statement that he was not under investigation wouldn't be illegal but you felt it could potentially create a duty to correct if circumstances changed?

	COMEY: Yes, sir. We wrestled with it before my testimony, where I confirmed that there was an investigation. There were two primary concerns. One was it creates a duty to correct, which I've lived before, and you want to be very careful about doing that. And second, it is a slippery slope. If we say the president and the vice president aren't under investigation. What is the principled investigation for stopping? So the leaderrship, at justice, acting attorney general Boente said, you're not going to do that. 

Right, worried about duty to correct. Mentions vice president for some reason.

	RUBIO: On March 30th during the phone call about general Flynn, you said he abruptly shifted and brought up something that you call, quote, unquote, the Mccabe thing. Specifically, the Mccabe thing as you understood it was that Mccabe's wife had received campaign money from what I assume means Terry McAuliffe?

	COMEY: Yes. 

	RUBIO: Close to the Clintons. Did he say, I don't like this guy because he got money from someone close to Clinton?

	COMEY: He asked me about McCabe and said, how is he going to be with me as president? I was rough on him on the campaign trail.

	RUBIO: Rough on Mccabe?

	COMEY: By his own account, he said he was rough on Mccabe and Mrs. Mccabe on the campaign trail. How is he going to be? I shared with the president, Andy is a pro. No issue at all. You have to know people of the FBI. They're not -- 

McCabe thing = McCabe Clinton donation issue. Trump worried McCabe wouldn't like him for ragging on him during the campaign.


	RUBIO: So the president turns to you and says, remember, I never brought up the Mccabe thing because you said he was a good guy, did you perceive that to be a statement that, I took care of you. I didn't do something because you told me he was a good guy. So I'm asking you potentially for something in return. Is that how you perceived it?

	COMEY: I wasn't sure what to make of it. That's possible. It was so out of context I didn't have a clear view of what it was. 


http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/07/politics/james-comey-memos-testimony/index.html
	The President went on to say that if there were some "satellite" associates of his who did something wrong, it would be good to find that out, but that he hadn't done anything wrong and hoped I would find a way to get it out that we weren't investigating him.

	In an abrupt shift, he turned the conversation to FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, saying he hadn't brought up "the McCabe thing" because I had said McCabe was honorable, although McAuliffe was close to the Clintons and had given him (I think he meant Deputy Director McCabe's wife) campaign money. Although I didn't understand why the President was bringing this up, I repeated that Mr. McCabe was an honorable person.

	He finished by stressing "the cloud" that was interfering with his ability to make deals for the country and said he hoped I could find a way to get out that he wasn't being investigated. 

could be interpreted as Trump pleading with Comey: see, I didn't bring up the "McCabe thing," now please help me?

Maybe Trump thinks the FBI are out to get him, bargaining with them? (what would give him that impression--Comey's first meeting with Trump?)

Comey could be trying to paint the bargaining as bargaining to end investigation, Trump could see as bargaining to end blackmail?

hmm

context is Trump seems worried about the blackmail allegations, wants "cloud" lifted

asks "why there was a hearing on Russia" (maybe Trump really thinks the whole thing is fake news?)

Trump basically sounds like he wants to be proven innocent

also says it would be good if his friends were cleared if they didn't do anything wrong

then "in abrupt shift" brings up McCabe (and at some point, during this convo? says he was rough on McCabe) and mentions he hadn't "brought up McCabe thing"

also at some point (this convo?) asks Comey about McCabe "how is he going to be with me as president? I was rough on him on the campaign trail"

then brings up cloud again, and that it is interfering in his ability to make deals

Comey points out the "McCabe thing" doesn't make sense in context

Maybe Trump was trying to say McCabe should like him since he "hadn't brought up the McCabe thing"?

Trump could be wondering why "the cloud" wasn't lifted, think it has something to do with McCabe disliking him? by Comey's account, it sounds like he reassured Trump "McCabe is an honorable man"

whatever it was, Comey says it didn't make sense to him in context


	RUBIO: Are those the only two instances in which that back and forth happened, where the president was basically saying, and I'm paraphrasing here, it's okay. Do the Russia investigation. I hope it all comes out. I have nothing to do with anything Russia. It'd be great if it all came out, people around me were doing things that were wrong?

	COMEY: Yes. As I recorded it accurately there. That was the sentiment he was expressing. Yes, sir. 

So Trump expressing "do the investigation, put it all out, I have nothing to do with Russia"


Rubio points out three requests: be loyal, let the Flynn thing go, tell people I'm not under investigation

the let the Flynn thing go could be Trump asking for forgiveness, not a request

"tell people I'm not under investigation" not illegal, although creates "duty to update" problem, could be referring to the allegations in the dossier (e.g. Trump thinking he's under investigation for visiting prostitutes in Moscow or being vulnerable to blackmail or something--wasn't he informed that Flynn was vulnerable to blakcmail, and this was a big deal?)

as for asking for loyalty--what's up with that?

	RUBIO: We learn more from the newspaper sometimes than the open hearings. Do you ever wonder why, of all the things in the investigation, the only thing never leaked is the fact the president was never personally under investigation, despite the fact that Democrats and Republicans and the leadership of congress have known that for weeks?

	COMEY: I don't know. I find matters that are briefed to the gang of eight are pretty tightly held, in my experience. 

that's a good point--makes you wonder who is behind these leaks?

	SEN. RON WYDEN: Mr. Comey, welcome. You and I have had significant policy differences over the years, particularly protecting Americans access to secure encryption. But I believe the timing of your firing stinks. Yesterday, you put on the record testimony that demonstrates why the odor of presidential abuse of power is so strong. Now, to my questions. In talking to senator Warner about this dinner that you had with the president, I believe January 27th, all in one dinner, the president raised your job prospects, he asked for your loyalty and denied allegations against him. All took place over one supper.


Wyden going for the "Trump pressuring Comey" angle


	Now, you told senator Warner that the president was looking to, quote, get something. Looking back, did that dinner suggest that your job might be contingent on how you handled the investigation?

	COMEY: I don't know that I'd go that far. I got the sense my job would be contingent upon how he felt I -- excuse me -- how he felt I conducted myself and whether I demonstrated loyalty. But I don't know whether I'd go so far as to connect it to the investigation. 

Comey says he felt pressured, job depends on how he conducted himself and loyalty.

Why didn't he feel it went so far as to connect it to the investigation?

Basically the whole thing is it is ambiguous and Comey mostly interprets it as him being pressured in some way, and doesn't ever bother to stop Trump or correct him

which is why we need tapes...

	WYDEN: He said the president was trying to create some sort of patronage. Behaving in a manner consistent with the wishes of the boss?

	COMEY: Yes. At least consider how what you're doing will affect the boss as a significant consideration. 

Comey interpreted dinner as setting up an understanding that job tied Trump


	COMEY: Our judgment, as I recall, is that he was very close to and inevitably going to recuse himself for a variety of reasons. We also were aware of facts that I can't discuss in an opening setting that would make his continued engagement in a Russia-related investigation problematic. So we were convinced -- in fact, I think we'd already heard the career people were recommending that he recuse himself, that he was not going to be in contact with russia-related matters much longer. That turned out to be the case. 

Comey hints at Sessions have hidden Russia problems, that and thought he was going to recuse, which is why he didn't tell Sessions of Trump convos

Sessions subject of investigation?


	COMEY: That's a question I can't answer. I think it is a reasonable question. If, as the president said, I was fired because of the Russia investigation, why was the attorney general involved in that chain? I don't know. So I don't have an answer for the question. 

Comey: President said I was fired because of the Russia investigation

(referring to interview?)

	WYDEN: Your testimony was that the president's request about Flynn could infect investigation. Had the president got what he wanted and what he asked of you, what would have been the effect on the investigation?

	COMEY: We would have closed any investigation of general Flynn in connection with his statements and encounters -- statements about encounters with Russians in the late part of December. We would have dropped an open criminal investigation. 

COMEY: Trump wanted Flynn investigation closed

Comey says didn't want investigators hearing "the president of the United States wants this to go away"


	WYDEN: Acting Attorney General Yates found out Mike Flynn could be blackmailed by the Russians and went immediately to warn the white house. Flynn is gone, but other individuals with contacts with the Russians are still in extremely important positions of power. Should the American people have the same sense of urgency now with respect to them?

	COMEY: I think all I can say, senator, is it's a -- the special counsel's investigation is very important, understanding what efforts there were or are by Russian government to influence our government is a critical part of the FBI's mission. And you've got the right person in Bob Mueller to lead it, it is a very important piece of work

Wyden implies contacts with Russians should worry people to do blackmail, Comey says Mueller will sort it out


	WYDEN: Vice president Pence was the head of the transition. To your knowledge, was he aware of the concerns about Michael Flynn prior to or during general Flynn's tenure as national security adviser?

	COMEY: I don't -- you're asking including up to the time when Flynn was --

	WYDEN: Right.
	
	COMEY: Forced to resign? My understanding is that he was. I'm trying to remember where I get that understanding from. I think from acting attorney general Yates. 

Comey says he maybe heard from Yates that Pence was aware of "the concerns" about Flynn before Flynn was fired

Wyden mentions transition--is he referring to the Foreign agent concerns or the Kislyak call concerns?

lots of ambiguity, seems to be a theme


	COLLINS: Did you limit that statement to counterintelligence invest -- investigations, or were you talking about any FBI investigation?

	COMEY: I didn't use the term counterintelligence. I was briefing him about salacious and unverified material. It was in a context of that that he had a strong and defensive reaction about that not being true. My reading of it was it was important for me to assure him we were not person investigating him. So the context then was actually narrower, focused on what I just talked to him about. It was very important because it was, first, true, and second, I was worried very much about being in kind of a Jay Hoover type situation. I didn't want him thinking I was briefing him on this to sort of hang it over him in some way. I was briefing him on it because, because we had been told by the media it was about to launch. We didn't want to be keeping that from him. He needed to know this was being said. I was very keen not to leave him with an impression that the bureau was trying to do something to him. So that's the context in which I said, sir, we're not personally investigating you. 


Ok, so Comey says he was very careful, worried not to come off as blackmailing Trump. Comey says "not personally investigating you" was to assure him.



	COLLINS: Then on the January 27th dinner, you told the president that he should be careful about asking you to investigate because, “you might create a narrative that we are investigating him personally, which we weren't.” Again, were you limiting that statement to counterintelligence investigations, or more broadly, such as a criminal investigation?

	COMEY: I didn't modify the word investigation. It was, again, he was reacting strongly against the unverified material, saying I'm tempted to order you to investigate it. In the context of that, I said, sir, be careful about it. I might create a narrative we're investigating you personally. 


http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/07/politics/james-comey-memos-testimony/index.html
	During the dinner, the President returned to the salacious material I had briefed him about on January 6, and, as he had done previously, expressed his disgust for the allegations and strongly denied them. He said he was considering ordering me to investigate the alleged incident to prove it didn't happen. I replied that he should give that careful thought because it might create a narrative that we were investigating him personally, which we weren't, and because it was very difficult to prove a negative. He said he would think about it and asked me to think about it.

Trump very worried about dossier, "considering" or "tempted" to order Comey to investigate it and clear him, Comey says be careful might make you look like your under investigation

Is this why Trump was worried about "the cloud"? how did he interpret this?

getting a feeling Trump and Comey had very different interpretations of their conversations

might explain "better hope I don't have any tapes" tweet

and if Comey warned Trump "careful this could make it look like you're under investigation," why did Trump keep asking Comey to say he wasn't under investigation? Trump seemed to think it looked like that anyway.

	COLLINS: I'd like to now turn to the conversations with the president about Michael Flynn, which had been discussed at great length.

	First, let me make very clear that the president never should have cleared the room and he never should have asked you, as you reported, to let it go, to let the investigation go. But I remain puzzled by your response. Michael Flynn is a good guy. You could have said, Mr. President, this meeting is inappropriate. This response could compromise the investigation. You should not be making such a request. It's fundamental to the operation of our government, the FBI be insulated from this kind of political pressure. You talked a bit today about that you were stunned by the president making the request. But my question to you is later on, upon reflection, did you go to anyone at the department of justice and ask them to call the white house counsel's office and explain that the president had to have a far better understanding and appreciation of his role vis-a-vis the FBI?

	COMEY: In general, I did. I spoke to the attorney general and spoke to the new deputy attorney general, Mr. Rosenstein, when he took office and explained my serious concern about the way in which the president is interacting, especially with the FBI. As I said in my testimony, I told the attorney general, it can't happen that you get kicked out of the room and the president talks to me. Why didn't we raise the specific? It was of investigative interest to figure out, what just happened with the president's request? I wouldn't want to alert the white house it had happened until we figured out what we were going to do with it investigatively. 

Collins: why not stop Trump? or tell people?

Comey spoke about President interactions with FBI to Rosenstein after installed

Comey saying didn't call White House and explain how to behave then because he thought it was interesting for an investigation

so sounds like Comey acting like an FBI agent at that point (although without an investigation officially open)

but a problem if it turns out that Trump was just completely clueless to how what he said was/could be interpreted

	COLLINS: And to whom did you show copies?

	COMEY: I asked -- the president tweeted on Friday after I got fired that I better hope there's not tapes. I woke up in the middle of the night on Monday night because it didn't dawn on me originally, that there might be corroboration for our conversation. There might a tape. My judgement was, I need to get that out into the public square. I asked a friend of mine to share the content of the memo with a reporter. Didn't do it myself for a variety of reasons. I asked him to because I thought that might prompt the appointment of a special counsel. I asked a close friend to do it. 


implying Comey showed Wittes?

Was Comey actually caught off guard by the tapes thing?

Are there actually tapes?

Comey leaked memo to prompt appointment of a special counsel (hmmmm... any special counsel in particular?)

	COLLINS: Was that Mr. Wittes?

	COMEY: No.

	COLLINS: Who was it?

	COMEY: A close friend who is a professor at Columbia law school. 


oh shit it wasn't Whittes

media says Daniel Richman

	COMEY: Yes, sir. There should be no fuzz on this whatsoever. The Russians interfered in our election during the 2016 cycle. They did with purpose. They did it with sophistication. They did it with overwhelming technical efforts. It was an active measures campaign driven from the top of that government. There is no fuzz on that. It is a high confidence judgment of the entire intelligence community and the members of this committee have seen the intelligence. It's not a close call. That happened. That's about as unfake as you can possibly get. It is very, very serious, which is why it's so refreshing to see a bipartisan focus on that. This is about America, not about a particular party. 

so, not "mischief"

	HEINRICH: Do you find it --

	COMEY: Not with President Trump.

	HEINRICH: Right.

	COMEY: I attended a fair number of meetings on that with President Obama. 

Comey offers that Obama talked to him more about Russian activities than Trump


kindof a departure from previous hearings? he seemed skiddish about pointing out Trump as a Russian stooge, but then again this is his first hearing as a private citizen (what does that say about Comey?)


	HEINRICH: Fair enough. Told the reporter he never did that. You've testified that the president asked for your loyalty in that dinner. White house denies that. A lot of this comes down to who should we believe. Do you want to say anything as to why we should believe you?

	COMEY: My mother raised me not to say things like this about myself so I'm not going to. I think people should look at the whole body of my testimony. As I used to say to juries, when I talked about a witness, you can't cherry pick it. You can't say, I like these things he said but on this, he's a ten liar. You have to take it together. I've tried to be open, fair, transparent and accurate. Of significant fact to me is so why did he kick everybody out of the oval office? Why would you kick the attorney general, the president, the chief of staff out to talk to me if it was about something else? So that, to me, as an investigator, is a significant fact. 

the quintessential question. Good answer--except sometimes leaning on one thing too much can throw you off, right? isn't there something about too much intel makes analysts less accurate sometimes?


	HEINRICH: As we look at testimony or as communication from both of you, we should probably be looking for consistency?

	COMEY: Well, in looking at any witness, you look at consistency, track record, demeanor, record over time, that sort of thing. 

Is Heinrich implying Comey is maybe not always consistent? (then again, am I? consistently learning, I guess...)


COMEY: backchannels make it easier for Russians to spy on you and (I guess?) blackmail you


	HEINRICH: Any reason in a classified environment, in a skiff, that this committee, it would not be appropriate to see those communications at least from your perspective as the author?

	COMEY: No. 

Congress can see the memos


COMEY: "fair" that Flynn lied to FBI


	BLUNT: You said the attorney general said, I don't want to be in the room with him alone again, but you continued to talk to him on the phone. What is the difference in being in the room alone with him and talking to him on the phone alone?

	COMEY: I think what I stressed to the attorney general was broader than just the room. I said, I report to you. It is very important you be between me and the white house. 


that's a good point... maybe Comey was saying he was worried more about optics?


	BLUNT: So you didn't consider your memo or your sense of that conversation to be a government document. You considered it to be, somehow, your own personal document that you could share to the media as you wanted through a friend?

	COMEY: Correct. I understood this to be my recollection recorded of my conversation with the president. As a private citizen, I thought it important to get it out.

	BLUNT: Were all your memos that you recorded on classified or other ds memos that might be yours as a private citizen?

	COMEY: I'm not following the question.

	BLUNT: You said you used classified --

	COMEY: Not the classified documents. Unclassified. I don't have any of them anymore. I gave them to the special counsel. My view was that the content of those unclassified, memorialization of those conversations was my recollection recorded. 

so, if not a government document--is it admissible in court? (like the same way an FBI agents notes are)


	KING: With regard to the -- several of these conversations, in his interview with Lester holt on NBC, the president said, I had dinner with him. He wanted to have dinner because he wanted to stay on. Is this an accurate statement?

	COMEY: No, sir. 


Interesting--Trump says Comey wanted to stay on before the dinner?

transcript: https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/11/president_trumps_full_interview_with_lester_holt.html
	TRUMP: Because he told me that. I mean, he told me that.

	HOLT: He told you, you weren't under investigation with...

	TRUMP: Yeah, and I...

	HOLT: ...regard to the Russian investigation.

	TRUMP: ...I've heard that -- I've heard that from others. I think...

	HOLT: Was it in a phone call? Did you meet face to face?

	TRUMP: I had a dinner with him. He wanted to have dinner because he wanted to stay on. We had a very nice dinner at the White House...


ok, word games... the real interesting question is: did Trump think Comey wanted to stay on or not at the time Trump invited Comey to the dinner? clearly afteward Trump would think Comey wanted to stay on, since that's what Comey told him.

anyway Comey says Trump is wrong


	KING: Did you in any way initiate that dinner?

	COMEY: No. He called me at my desk at lunchtime and asked me, was I free for dinner that night. Called himself. Said, can you come over for dinner tonight? I said, yes, sir. He said, will 6:00 work? I think 6:00 first. Then he said, I was going to invite your whole family but we'll do it next time. Is that a good time? I said, sir, whatever works for you. He said, how about 6:30? I said, whatever works for you, sir. Then I hung up and had to call my wife and break a date with her. I was supposed to take her to dinner that night. 

Comey socially awkward and angsty

	KING: One of the all-time great excuses for breaking a date.

	COMEY: Yeah. In retrospect, I love spending time with my wife and I wish I would have been there that night. 


Comey revealing his true feelings about Trump?

context:

https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/11/president_trumps_full_interview_with_lester_holt.html

	TRUMP: ...very early on. That dinner was arranged. I think he asked for the dinner.

	And he wanted to stay on as the FBI head. And I said I'll, you know, consider. We'll see what happens.

or Comey trying to show he is independent

what would be funny: Trump just wants to be friends with the FBI, thinks he's making friends, meanwhile Comey is disgusted thinking Trump is trying to influence him

Then Trump fires him and calls him a nutjob

https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/11/president_trumps_full_interview_with_lester_holt.html

amazing

if he was telling the truth the entire time? (at least in his view)

	KING: What is relationship of ambassador -- the ambassador from Russia to the United States to the Russian intelligence infrastructure?

	COMEY: He's a diplomat who is the chief of mission at the Russian embassy, which employs a robust cohort of intelligence officers. So, surely, he is whiting of their aggressive intelligence operations, at least some of it in the United States. I don't consider him to be an intelligence officer himself. He's a diplomat. 

Comey doesn't "consider" Kislyak an intelligence officer? what does that mean?


	KING: Back to Mr. Flynn. Would the -- would closing out the Flynn investigation have impeded the overall Russian investigation?

	COMEY: No. Well, unlikely, except to the extent -- there is always a possibility if you have a criminal case against someone and squeeze them, flip them and they give you information about something else. But I saw the two as touching each other but separate. 


Comey as seen the "Flynn" and "Russia" investigations as separate


	KING: With regard to your memos, isn't it true that in a court case when you're weighing evidence, contemporaneous memos and contemporaneous statements to third parties are considered probative in terms of the validity of testimony?

	COMEY: Yes.

	KING: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

King wants to use the memos to impeach Trump?

King and Comey seem like they've rehearsed this.

but if Comey wrote his memos "as a private citizen," does that limit how they can be used in court?
