http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	BURR: Director, when the president requested that you, and I quote "Let Flynn go," General Flynn had an unreported contact with the Russians, which is an offense, and if press accounts are right, there might have been discrepancies between facts and his FBI testimony. In your estimation, was general Flynn at that time in serious legal jeopardy, and in addition to that, do you sense that the president was trying to obstruct justice or just seek for a way for Mike Flynn to save face, given that he had already been fired?

	COMEY: General Flynn at that point in time was in legal jeopardy. There was an open FBI criminal investigation of his statements in connection with the Russian contacts, and the contacts themselves, and so that was my assessment at the time. I don't think it's for me to say whether the conversation I had with the president was an effort to obstruct. I took it as a very disturbing thing, very concerning, but that's a conclusion I'm sure the special counsel will work towards to try and understand what the intention was there, and whether that's an offense. 


So Flynn in legal jeopardy, Trump at least should know, says "I hope you can let this go."


------


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	What was your impression, and what did you mean by this notion of a patronage relationship?

	COMEY: Well, my impression, and again it's my impression, I could always be wrong but my common sense told me what was going on is, either he had concluded or someone had told him that you didn't, you've already asked Comey to stay, and you didn't get anything for it.


Comey had the "impression," "could always be wrong" that Trump wanted something in return for Comey staying on the job?


	And that the dinner was an effort to build a relationship, in fact, he asked specifically, of loyalty in the context of asking me to stay. As I said, what was odd about that is we'd already talked twice about it by that point and he said I very much hope you'll stay. In fact, I just remembered sitting a third, when you've seen the. IC tour of me walking across the blue room, and what the president whispered in my ear was "I really look forward to working with you." So after those encounters -- 


"asked specifically of loyalty in the context of asking me to stay." And Comey goes on to say Trump might have had the intent there to influence Comey, make his job tied to doing what "the boss wants."


Trump also "thinking about firing" Comey (in his own words) for a long time

problem is intent could easily be something else, maybey Trump thinks Comey is "loyal" to Clinton/the "deep state" and was thinking of firing him for that.



http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	Now, you told senator Warner that the president was looking to, quote, get something. Looking back, did that dinner suggest that your job might be contingent on how you handled the investigation?

	COMEY: I don't know that I'd go that far. I got the sense my job would be contingent upon how he felt I -- excuse me -- how he felt I conducted myself and whether I demonstrated loyalty. But I don't know whether I'd go so far as to connect it to the investigation. 


So Comey felt pressure, wouldn't connect to investigation


	WYDEN: He said the president was trying to create some sort of patronage. Behaving in a manner consistent with the wishes of the boss?

	COMEY: Yes. At least consider how what you're doing will affect the boss as a significant consideration. 




------

	WARNER: That was a few days before your firing.

	COMEY: On the Sunday after the inauguration. The next Friday I have dinner and the president begins by wanting to talk about my job and so I'm sitting there thinking wait a minute three times we've already, you've already asked me to stay or talked about me staying. My common sense, again I could be wrong but my common sense told me what's going on here is, he's looking to get something in exchange for granting my request to stay in the job. 


Trump keeps asking Comey to stay, Comey sounds like he's way out there in speculating/assigning motive


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	COMEY: ...But then the explanations, the shifting explanations, confused me and increasingly concerned me. They confused me because the president and I had had multiple conversations about my job, both before and after he took office, and he had repeatedly told me I was doing a great job, and he hoped I would stay. And I had repeatedly assured him that I did intend to stay and serve out the years of my term. He told me repeatedly that he had talked to lots of people about me, including our current Attorney General, and had learned that I was doing a great job, and that I was extremely well-liked by the FBI workforce.


Comey makes it sound like Trump did want Comey to stay, or was afraid of him


------


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	SEN. DIANNE FEINSTEIN: Thanks very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Comey, I just want you to know that I have great respect for you. Senator Cornyn and I sit on the judiciary committee and we have the occasion to have you before us. You're a man of strength and I regret the situations we all find ourselves in. I just want to say that. Let me begin with one overarching question. Why do you believe you were fired?

	COMEY: I guess I don't know for sure. I believe — I think the president, at his word, that I was fired because of the Russia investigation. Something about the way I was conducting it, the president felt created pressure on him that he wanted to relieve. Again, I didn't know that at the time. I watched his interview. I read the press accounts of his conversations. I take him at his word there. Look, I could be wrong. Maybe he's saying something that's not true. I take him at his word, at least based on what I know now. 


Is that Comey's basis for thinking Trump fired him for the Russia investigation? he sounds unsure even about that


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	So it confused me when I saw on television the president saying that he actually fired me because of the Russia investigation


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	FEINSTEIN: Do you believe the Russia investigation played a role?

	COMEY: In why I was fired?

	FEINSTEIN: Yes.

	COMEY: Yes. I've seen the president say so. 


says it multiple times, believes he was fired because of the Russia investigation because of what the President said



http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/12/politics/trump-comey-russia-thing/index.html
	Trump: Regardless of this reccomendation, I was going to fire Comey, knowing there was no good time to do it. And in fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, you know this Rusher thing with Trump and Russia it's a made up story it's an excuse for the democrats for having lost an election


	...Were you angry at Comey because of the Russia investigation?

	Trump...No look, let me tell you, as far as I'm concerned, I absolutely want this thing to be done properly


Hard to use to show intent I think? don't they say false exculpatory statements are better?



http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/12/politics/trump-comey-russia-thing/index.html
	COMEY: That's a question I can't answer. I think it is a reasonable question. If, as the president said, I was fired because of the Russia investigation, why was the attorney general involved in that chain? I don't know. So I don't have an answer for the question. 


Comey really doubles-down on "the president said I was fired because of the Russia investigation"



	REED: Now, the Russian investigation as you've pointed out and my colleagues is one of the most serious hostile acts against this country's history undermining our core of elections is not a discrete event. It will likely occur again and is likely being prepared for '18, '20 and beyond. And yet the president of the United States advised you because at your own — some relationship to the investigation. Then he shows up in the Oval Office with the Russian foreign minister first as classifying you as crazy and a real nutjob. He said “I faced great pressure because of Russia; that’s taken off.” Your conclusion would be that the president, I would think is downplaying the seriousness of this threat. In fact, took specific steps to stop a thorough investigation of the Russian influence, and also from what you've said or what was said this morning, doesn't seem particularly interested in these hostile threats by the Russians. Is that true?

	COMEY: I don't know that I can agree to that level of detail. There's no doubt it's a fair judgment. It's my judgment I was fired because of the Russia investigation. I was fired in some way to change — or the endeavor was to change the way the Russia investigation is being conducted. That is a very big deal. And not just because it involves me. The nature of the FBI and the nature of its work requires that it not be the subject of political consideration. And on top of that, you have the Russia investigation itself is vital, because of the threat. And I know I should have said this earlier, but it's obvious, if any Americans were part of helping the Russians do that to us, that is a very big deal. And I'm confident if that is the case, director Mueller will find that evidence. 


interesting--didn't Comey make explicit he thinks the "Flynn" and "Russia" investigations are separate things?


------


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	FEINSTEIN: Let's go to the Flynn issue. The senator outlined, “I hope you could see your way to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go.” But you also said in your written remarks, and I quote, that you “had understood the president to be requesting that we drop any investigation of Flynn in connection with false statements about his conversations with the Russian ambassador in December,”. Please go into that with more detail.

	COMEY: Well, the context and the president's word are what led me to that conclusion. As I said in my statement, I could be wrong, but Flynn had been forced to resign the day before. And the controversy around general Flynn at that point in time was centered on whether he lied to the vice president about his nature of conversations with the Russians, whether he had been candid with others in the course of that. So that happens on the day before. On the 1, the president makes reference to that. I understood what he wanted me to do was drop any investigation connected to Flynn's account of his conversations with the Russians. 


Comey still sounds unsure. The context he describes could also mean Trump wanted Comey to let the "Flynn lied to the vice President" thing go.


------


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	FEINSTEIN: You describe two phone calls that you received from president trump. One on March 30th and one on April 11. He, quote, described the Russia investigation as a cloud that was impairing his ability, end quote, as president, and asked you, quote, to lift the cloud, end quote. How did you interpret that? What did you believe he wanted you to do?

	COMEY: I interpreted that as he was frustrated that the Russia investigation was taking up so much time and energy. I think he meant of the executive branch, but in the public square in general. It was making it difficult for him to focus on other priorities of his. But what he asked me was actually narrowing than that. I think what he meant by the cloud -- and, again, I could be wrong -- but the entire investigation is taking up oxygen and making it hard for me to focus on what I want to focus on. The ask was to get it out that I, the president, am not personally under investigation.


Comey still "interpreting" and unsure about what Trump meant by "the cloud"


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	RUBIO: On the cloud, we keep talking about this cloud, you perceive the cloud to be the Russian investigation in general?

	COMEY: Yes, sir. 


But Comey "percieves" it as the Russian investigation in general


------


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	SEN. MARCO RUBIO: Director Comey, the meeting in the oval office where he made the request about Mike Flynn, was that only time he asked you to hopefully let it go?

	COMEY: Yes.

	RUBIO: And in that meeting, as you understood it, he was asking not about the general Russia investigation, he was asking specifically about the jeopardy that Flynn was in himself?

	COMEY: That's how I understood it. Yes, sir.

	RUBIO: As you perceived it, while he hoped you did away with it, you perceived it as an order, given the setting, the position and some of the circumstances?

	COMEY: Yes. 


Comey "understood it" and "perceived it" for "I hope you can let this go" as an order



------



http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	RUBIO: On March 30th during the phone call about general Flynn, you said he abruptly shifted and brought up something that you call, quote, unquote, the Mccabe thing. Specifically, the Mccabe thing as you understood it was that Mccabe's wife had received campaign money from what I assume means Terry McAuliffe?

	COMEY: Yes. 

	RUBIO: Close to the Clintons. Did he say, I don't like this guy because he got money from someone close to Clinton?

	COMEY: He asked me about McCabe and said, how is he going to be with me as president? I was rough on him on the campaign trail.

	RUBIO: Rough on Mccabe?

	COMEY: By his own account, he said he was rough on Mccabe and Mrs. Mccabe on the campaign trail. How is he going to be? I shared with the president, Andy is a pro. No issue at all. You have to know people of the FBI. They're not -- 


Comey adding to the case that Trump's intent based on fear of FBI?


http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/07/politics/james-comey-memos-testimony/index.html
	The President went on to say that if there were some "satellite" associates of his who did something wrong, it would be good to find that out, but that he hadn't done anything wrong and hoped I would find a way to get it out that we weren't investigating him.

	In an abrupt shift, he turned the conversation to FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, saying he hadn't brought up "the McCabe thing" because I had said McCabe was honorable, although McAuliffe was close to the Clintons and had given him (I think he meant Deputy Director McCabe's wife) campaign money. Although I didn't understand why the President was bringing this up, I repeated that Mr. McCabe was an honorable person.


like "see I'm being nice to you"


Rubio brings up, did Trump except something in return?


Problem is it could be construed as Trump trying to "mend ties" after ragging on the FBI on the campaign trail

seems like a story that fits facts better?

A lot of "I hope you're not mad at me" kindof talk? "I hope you can let this go," "happy if you stay," "I was rough on McCabe"

Trump also hugging COmey (and COmey "disgusted" lol)


reportedly, Trump also suspected intelligence community of being out to get him


------


	COMEY: Yes, sir. He went farther than that. He said, and if some of my satellites did something wrong, it'd be good to find that out.

	RUBIO: That is the second part. The satellites, if one of my satellites, I imagine he meant some of the people surrounding his campaign, did something wrong, it'd be great to know that, as well.

	COMEY: Yes, sir. That's what he said.

	RUBIO: Are those the only two instances in which that back and forth happened, where the president was basically saying, and I'm paraphrasing here, it's okay. Do the Russia investigation. I hope it all comes out. I have nothing to do with anything Russia. It'd be great if it all came out, people around me were doing things that were wrong?

	COMEY: Yes. As I recorded it accurately there. That was the sentiment he was expressing. Yes, sir. 


Comey sounds more sure here, Trump saying "do the Russia investigation let it all come out" as if Trump is confident of his innocence


------


	RUBIO: What it comes down to is the president asked three things of you. Asked for your loyalty. You said you'd be loyally honest.

	COMEY: Honestly loyal.

	RUBIO: Honestly loyal. He asked you on one occasion to let the Mike Flynn thing go because he was a good guy. By the way, you're aware he said the same thing in the press the next day. He is a good guy, treated unfairly, etc. I imagine your FBI agents read that.

	COMEY: I'm sure they did.

	RUBIO: The president's wishes were known to them, certainly by the next day when he had a press conference with the prime minister. Going back, the three requests were, number one, be loyal. Number two, let the Mike Flynn thing go. He is a good guy, been treated unfairly. Number three, can you please tell the American people what these leaders in congress already know, which you already know and what you told me three times, that I'm not under personally under investigation.

	COMEY: That's right. 


Comey testifies Trump was making a "request" to let the Flynn thing go.


(Is "Flynn is a good guy" a false exculpatory statement?)


	WYDEN: Your testimony was that the president's request about Flynn could infect investigation. Had the president got what he wanted and what he asked of you, what would have been the effect on the investigation?

	COMEY: We would have closed any investigation of general Flynn in connection with his statements and encounters -- statements about encounters with Russians in the late part of December. We would have dropped an open criminal investigation. 


So Comey  testifies that Trump's intent was for Flynn investigation to be dropped


------

	KING: With regard to the -- several of these conversations, in his interview with Lester holt on NBC, the president said, I had dinner with him. He wanted to have dinner because he wanted to stay on. Is this an accurate statement?

	COMEY: No, sir. 

	...


	KING: Did you in any way initiate that dinner?

	COMEY: No. He called me at my desk at lunchtime and asked me, was I free for dinner that night. Called himself. Said, can you come over for dinner tonight? I said, yes, sir. He said, will 6:00 work? I think 6:00 first. Then he said, I was going to invite your whole family but we'll do it next time. Is that a good time? I said, sir, whatever works for you. He said, how about 6:30? I said, whatever works for you, sir. Then I hung up and had to call my wife and break a date with her. I was supposed to take her to dinner that night. 


establishing Trump as a liar? or, trying to?


https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/11/president_trumps_full_interview_with_lester_holt.html

	TRUMP: ...very early on. That dinner was arranged. I think he asked for the dinner.

	And he wanted to stay on as the FBI head. And I said I'll, you know, consider. We'll see what happens.


yet still boils down to "he said, he said" (and Trump sounds unsure anyway)


------


So what is Comey's case?


The only thing he has it looks like is the Flynn investigation--"I hope you can let this go"


all of it relies on Trumps word vs. Comey


Comey say it as an "order," a "request," and if Trump "got what he wanted" Flynn investigation would be dropped


I love Comey's prepared statement. Still not sure it was written by him...


http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/07/politics/james-comey-memos-testimony/index.html
	When the door by the grandfather clock closed, and we were alone, the President began by saying, "I want to talk about Mike Flynn." Flynn had resigned the previous day. The President began by saying Flynn hadn't done anything wrong in speaking with the Russians, but he had to let him go because he had misled the Vice President. He added that he had other concerns about Flynn, which he did not then specify.

So, Trump starts by saying he believes Flynn didn't do anything wrong with the Russians, but did do something wrong by lying to Pence.


	The President then made a long series of comments about the problem with leaks of classified information -- a concern I shared and still share. After he had spoken for a few minutes about leaks, Reince Priebus leaned in through the door by the grandfather clock and I could see a group of people waiting behind him. The President waved at him to close the door, saying he would be done shortly. The door closed.

Priebus a witness?

	The President then returned to the topic of Mike Flynn, saying, "He is a good guy and has been through a lot." He repeated that Flynn hadn't done anything wrong on his calls with the Russians, but had misled the Vice President. He then said, "I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go." I replied only that "he is a good guy." (In fact, I had a positive experience dealing with Mike Flynn when he was a colleague as Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency at the beginning of my term at FBI.) I did not say I would "let this go."


Trump repeats nothing wrong with Russians, but something wrong with VP.


	The President returned briefly to the problem of leaks. I then got up and left out the door by the grandfather clock, making my way through the large group of people waiting there, including Mr. Priebus and the Vice President.


Priebus and VP a witness?




https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/james-b-comey-lays-out-the-case-that-president-trump-obstructed-justice/2017/06/08/e7f49a42-4c4d-11e7-bc1b-fddbd8359dee_story.html?utm_term=.fe9d2cc597a6
	There was evidence of possible intent: when the president cleared the room so he could ask Comey — without the attorney general or his son-in-law present — about the investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn’s contacts with Russian officials after the 2016 election.

	There was the suggestion of quid pro quo: when Trump repeatedly raised the status of Comey’s job as he asked for loyalty.

	And there was the consequence: when Comey, having not steered investigators away from Flynn, was fired by Trump in May, long before the end of his 10-year term.


	...Of particular concern, Comey said, was that Trump asked other officials to leave him alone with his FBI director in the Oval Office before saying of Flynn: “He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go.”

	“Why did he kick everybody out of the Oval Office?” Comey said. “That, to me as an investigator, is a very significant fact.”


zeroing in on this--kicking people out of the room shows intent to obstruct investigation?

	“I think any reasonable prosecutor would look at that and say it implies a consciousness of guilt,” Kramer said. “You know this is not something you’re supposed to be doing. You’re not even willing to do it in front of the attorney general.”


does raise the question of why Trump would want to do this, but don't see how it points to wanting to obstruct investigation

also


http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/07/politics/james-comey-memos-testimony/index.html
	When the door by the grandfather clock closed, 


the taping device must be in the grandfather clock!!! (but seriously why does he keep mentioning that)


	The President then made a long series of comments about the problem with leaks of classified information -- a concern I shared and still share. 


some context--Trump at this time thought USIC was leaking about him, Congress was asking Comey in particular about it, Comey dodging questions

but there is one explanation for Trump wanting to speak with Comey alone

Comey was the last holdover from Obama for one



But this guy makes a point of saying Comey fired for "Russia investigation," not Flynn:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/james-b-comey-lays-out-the-case-that-president-trump-obstructed-justice/2017/06/08/e7f49a42-4c4d-11e7-bc1b-fddbd8359dee_story.html
	Comey allowed, under questioning from Sen. James E. Risch (R-Idaho), that Trump did not outright give him an order on Flynn.

	“He did not direct you to let it go?” Risch asked.

	“Not in his words, no,” Comey said. 


But this would mean Comey is contradicting himself... but anyway...

	But Comey later said he took the president’s assertion as akin to a command.

	“I took it as a direction,” Comey said. “This is the president of the United States, with me alone, saying ‘I hope this.’ ”


	Barak Cohen, a former federal prosecutor now in private practice at Perkins Coie, said he believed Comey was “walking a fine line” by “trying to convey how he interpreted the president, but also admitting that there might have been other ways to interpret what the president said.”

	But Comey’s assessment of the situation, he said, was critically important.

	“He was there; he heard the president’s tone and saw his body language — things that shape whatever the president was trying to express,” Cohen said. “That’s why direct evidence of someone who witnesses an alleged crime is so important.”


That's the problem... can you impeach Trump based off how Comey feels about it when Comey is a liar?

And how he feels about it certainly doesn't say much about Trump's intent either...


------


Another take on Comey's case:


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/08/opinion/comey-trump-obstruction-of-justice.html?mcubz=0
	In recent weeks, some have suggested that President Trump’s controversial interactions with James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, did not constitute wrongdoing. As an ex-criminal defense lawyer and a former federal corruption prosecutor, now joined together as government watchdogs, we beg to differ. Mr. Comey’s sworn statement and answers before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee now provide strong evidence that President Trump committed obstruction of justice. But we have miles to go before that case is legally resolved one way or the other — if it ever is.

	The crime of obstruction requires an attempt to block an investigation with corrupt intent. Mr. Comey has now given us direct witness testimony of obstruction by the president in the form of the already famous statement “I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go.” Mr. Comey repeatedly added in today’s questioning that “I took it as a direction” that “this is what he wants me to do.” In a system governed by the rule of law, shutting down an investigation to benefit a friend — or perhaps, to keep damaging information that friend may know from emerging — is corrupt.


So these ppl going for the Flynn route

	Under probing questioning, with much less senatorial filibustering than is usual, Mr. Comey began answering the many questions that Congress and the special counsel will be grappling with for some time to come. He had to explain how he could be positive the president was giving him a direction (he conceded that was his interpretation). He had to justify why he didn’t tell the president the Flynn request was wrong (he was “stunned”). At one point, Mr. Comey even forgot the exact words the president said to him about Mr. Flynn.


a problem...


	The final reason this will take time is because of the agonizing legal and political decisions that will need to be made after the evidence has been collected. Having worked with and against the F.B.I. special counsel , Robert Mueller, on previous cases, we know he will wrestle as thoughtfully as the special prosecutor Leon Jaworski did, when he had to decide whether he could indict Richard Nixon if the evidence justified it. Mr. Jaworski believed he could, and we agree, but many others differ.


meaning run-out the clock so Trump stays-on for 4 years?


	The alternative, a congressional decision to impeach, if justified, would require many Republicans to turn on their own president. Recall that it took the Republicans years to sour on President Nixon. Today’s Republicans may follow suit, but it will not be quick.


basically


------------

https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/08/us/politics/obstruction-of-justice-trump-comey.html?mcubz=0
	WASHINGTON — The testimony by the former F.B.I. director James B. Comey that President Trump, before firing him last month, demanded loyalty, urged him to drop the investigation into his former national security adviser and pressed him to “lift the cloud” of the Russia inquiry is fueling accusations that the president obstructed justice.




transcript: https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/11/president_trumps_full_interview_with_lester_holt.html
