	

http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/07/politics/james-comey-memos-testimony/index.html
	HEINRICH: Fair enough. Told the reporter he never did that. You've testified that the president asked for your loyalty in that dinner. White house denies that. A lot of this comes down to who should we believe. Do you want to say anything as to why we should believe you?

	COMEY: My mother raised me not to say things like this about myself so I'm not going to. I think people should look at the whole body of my testimony. As I used to say to juries, when I talked about a witness, you can't cherry pick it. You can't say, I like these things he said but on this, he's a ten liar. You have to take it together. I've tried to be open, fair, transparent and accurate. Of significant fact to me is so why did he kick everybody out of the oval office? Why would you kick the attorney general, the president, the chief of staff out to talk to me if it was about something else? So that, to me, as an investigator, is a significant fact. 



http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/12/politics/trump-comey-russia-thing/index.html
	Trump: Regardless of this reccomendation, I was going to fire Comey, knowing there was no good time to do it. And in fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, you know this Rusher thing with Trump and Russia it's a made up story it's an excuse for the democrats for having lost an election


	...Were you angry at Comey because of the Russia investigation?

	Trump...No look, let me tell you, as far as I'm concerned, I absolutely want this thing to be done properly


------


http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/07/politics/james-comey-memos-testimony/index.html
	BLUNT: You said the attorney general said, I don't want to be in the room with him alone again, but you continued to talk to him on the phone. What is the difference in being in the room alone with him and talking to him on the phone alone?

	COMEY: I think what I stressed to the attorney general was broader than just the room. I said, I report to you. It is very important you be between me and the white house. 


------

	WARNER: I think, again, this speaks volumes. This doesn't even get to the questions around the phone calls about lifting the cloud. I know other members will get to that, but I really appreciate your testimony, and appreciate your service to our nation.

	COMEY: Thank you, Senator Warner. I'm sitting here going through my contacts with him. I had one conversation with the president that was classified where he asked about our, an ongoing intelligence investigation, it was brief and entirely professional. 


But he didn't have Clinton's 302 in front of him when he was asked all these questions about it...
