


comey also testified: FBI only had to personally read 6,000 emails.

and why is that?

If they determined that, clearly they would have to have determined that up-front...

so are we to believe the FBI obtained a warrant, wrote custom software they already have, learned they only had to read 6,000 emails, and didn't tell you until saturday before the election (nov 6th)


so comey testified: knew sending letter would affect election


question is: why not get a warrant first to see if the emails could be reviewed quickly?


did comey know most were backups? why contradict?
did comey know most could be dups?

we have to believe:

comey was "nausous," knew he would affect election, knew he could get a warrant, but decided to go with what his people told him and send the letter

and why send the letter? because he was worried he would "conceal" the "golden email," which would for whatever reason could be disastrous

but actually two accounts:

first he say he promised to update Congress on "new developments," and "remember I just sent it to them, not announced."


If this account is true, we have to believe Comey decided a lose interpretation of his "committment" was more important than affecting the election

if "public interest" is true, then we have to believe that Comey believed a chance (and how small of this chance? is he saying, in general, that someone could just show him some emails and he will automatically email congress?) of having "the Golden email" is more dire than affecting the election

he did say that he was thinking of the "integrity of the justice system"

but his actions, which came off as very irresponsible, actually damaged the integrity of our justice system.


and the FBI's job is, in part, to prevent interference in our elections... which is what he did


So Comey's alibi is: more worried about "golden email" than affecting election, didn't bother to get warrent


wouldn't getting a warrant have helped see likelyhood of whether they had the "golden email?"

wouldn't that most were from back-ups have given you a clue that most were dupes?




According to your testimony, you learned there were potentially relevant emails on Weiner's laptop, then sent the letter on Oct. 27, then authorized the FBI to obtain a search warrant:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	WHITEHOUSE: OK, thank you. And onto the Weiner laptop. As I understand it, you were informed by agents in the FBI office that there was potentially related or relevant information in Mr. Weiner's laptop. On the basis of that information, you then sent a letter to the members of Congress, before whom you had committed to answer if there were any changes in the status of things.

	You also then authorized the agents to pursue a search warrant, which then gave them access to the content, which allowed them to do the search, that you then said came up with nothing so that you could then undo the letter and say, actually we took a look and there's nothing there. Is that the -- do I have the order correctly there?

	COMEY: Right, they came to me, they briefed me on what they could see from the metadata, why it was significant. They thought they ought to seek a search warrant, wanted my approval to do that. I agreed, authorized it. So did the Department of Justice and then they reviewed -- I was just making sure I get the numbers right.

	During the -- the following week, they reviewed 40,000 e-mails -- I understated how many they reviewed -- and found the 3,000 of them were work related and came from BlackBerry backups and a bunch of other things ... And then 12 -- and then 12 of them were classified, but we'd seen them all before.


When asked why you decided to sent your letter before obtaining a warrant, you testified that you were told there was no way the FBI could finish reviewing the emails before the election, although that turned out to be false:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	WHITEHOUSE: So let me offer you this hypothetical. They come to you and say the metadata shows that we have potential information here that could be relevant and could cause us to reopen the information.

	It would seem to me that it would be as sensible at that moment to say how quickly can you get a search warrant and how quickly can we get an answer that question because I made a promise to people in Congress that I would get back to them with this information.

	And if there's anything real here, you need to get on that pronto so that I can answer that question, so that the search warrant precedes the letter rather than the letter preceding the search warrant, particularly in light of the widely adhered to policy the department not to disclose ongoing investigative materials. And their truly exceptional nature of disclosures. Why not the search warrant first?

	COMEY: Well I pressed him very hard on that. And found credible their responses that there was no way -- no way they could review the volume of information they saw on the laptop in the time remaining.

	WHITEHOUSE: Except that they did.

	COMEY: Well they did, and -- because our wizards at our operational technology division came up with a way to de-dupe electronically -- that as I understand it involved writing a custom software program that's going to help us in lots of other areas. But investigative team said, sir we cannot finish this before the election.


According to media reports, "nearly all" of the pertinent emails recovered from Weiner's laptop were duplicates of emails already reviewed by the FBI:


http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2016-election/fbi-completes-review-newly-revealed-hillary-clinton-emails-finds-no-n678701
	A senior law enforcement official confirmed to NBC News that nearly all of the thousands of newly examined emails on Weiner's laptop were duplicates of emails already seen by the team investigating Clinton's server. Although some emails did forward documents previously identified as containing classified information, the review didn't change the total number of classified documents investigators found on the server. 



uu


And according to an amm


https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/05/09/us/politics/document-FBI-Comey-Testimony-Clarifying-Letter.html
	...the FBI believes it is reasonable to conclude that most of the emails found on Mr. Weiner's laptop computer related to the Clinton investigation occurred as a result of a backup of personal electronic devices, with a small number a result of manual forwarding by Mrs. Abedin to Mr. Weiner. Investigators identified approximately 49,000 e-mails which were potentially relevant to the investigation. All were reviewed with a particular focus on those containing classified information. Investigators ultimately determined that two e-mail chains containing classified information were manually forward to Mr. Wiener's account. Ten additional chains containing classified information also were found on the laptop computer as a result of backup activity. All twelve chains previously had been reviewed by investigators.









https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	COMEY: Well they did, and -- because our wizards at our operational technology division came up with a way to de-dupe electronically -- that as I understand it involved writing a custom software program that's going to help us in lots of other areas. But investigative team said, sir we cannot finish this before the election.










Reportedly, 





On October 30th, the FBI obtained the warrant:

http://www.npr.org/2016/10/30/499960392/5-things-we-know-about-the-fbi-clinton-email-inquiry-and-4-things-we-dont
	FBI Obtains Warrant To Search Emails That Renewed Look Into Clinton Server

	...Sources tell NPR that the emails appear to come from a laptop that Weiner and Abedin sometimes shared. The investigators' theory is that Abedin apparently used the laptop at home for some correspondence that could be related to State Department business, sources said.

	It is not clear whether any of the newly discovered emails were sent or received by Clinton.

	Another key question is whether the documents are copies of material already reviewed by the FBI during its yearlong investigation into Clinton's email server, or whether they are new — and whether they contain classified material.

	...A spate of new polls gauging the state of the race nationally and in key battleground states emerged Sunday. 


https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/05/09/us/politics/document-FBI-Comey-Testimony-Clarifying-Letter.html
	...the FBI believes it is reasonable to conclude that most of the emails found on Mr. Weiner's laptop computer related to the Clinton investigation occurred as a result of a backup of personal electronic devices, with a small number a result of manual forwarding by Mrs. Abedin to Mr. Weiner. Investigators identified approximately 49,000 e-mails which were potentially relevant to the investigation. All were reviewed with a particular focus on those containing classified information. Investigators ultimately determined that two e-mail chains containing classified information were manually forward to Mr. Wiener's account. Ten additional chains containing classified information also were found on the laptop computer as a result of backup activity. All twelve chains previously had been reviewed by investigators.




