

Some corrections:


In my last email, I downplayed the emails related to Comey's Oct 28th letter as "some Clinton emails on Weiner's laptop." I have since found that this is a mischaracterization--the FBI found that emails between Huma Abedin and Clinton were deleted by Clinton's lawyers in an unusual way, which would have made the Huma-Clinton correspondence of particular interest to the FBI, at least until they did their de-duplication.



About Comey briefing Trump that the dossier was about to be leaked, I asked:

https://pastebin.com/bqyWNzgi

	how did you know for sure? why is a "defensive briefing" even necessary? and did you really have to talk about the blackmail material in detail?

These questions aren't that good. A better question is: why brief people on the dossier at all?

It looks like there is a Russian propaganda campaign to convince people the dossier is true (or trick people into thinking the whole thing is true):


http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/01/donald-trump-russia-report-intelligence-community
	by Abigail Tracy 

	At the same time, the fact that the nation’s top intelligence officials chose to present a summary version of the dossier to both President Obama and President-elect Trump, as CNN reports they did last week, indicates that they may have had a relatively high degree of confidence that at least some of the claims therein were credible, or at least worth investigating further. “My general take is that the intelligence community and law enforcement seem to be taking these claims seriously. That itself is highly significant. But it is not the same as these allegations being verified,” Susan Hennessey a former lawyer for the National Security Administration, told Wired. “Even if this was an intelligence community document—which it isn’t—this kind of raw intelligence is still treated with skepticism.” Former N.S.A. analyst John Schindler made a similar argument on Twitter, writing that the intelligence community “would never touch an outside, private Intel report, much less briefed it to ‘the top,’ unless key parts could be corroborated.”

https://www.reddit.com/r/russianpropaganda/comments/5tqnbz/john_schindlers_conduct_is_consistent_with_being/
	John Schindler's conduct is consistent with being a Kremlin propagandist

http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/06/donald-trump-nato-article-5
	by Abigail Tracy 

	Of course we believe in Article 5,” United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley said on Sunday during an interview with CNN’s State of the Union. Secretary of Defense James Mattis argued that Trump’s mere appearance before NATO leaders indicated that he was dedicated to the alliance. “He was there to show our statement that we are standing with the NATO allies 100 percent,” Mattis said at a security conference in Singapore on Saturday. National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster took his defense of Trump’s speech one step further. “I think it’s extraordinary that there would be an expectation that the president would have to say explicitly that he supports Article 5. Of course he does,” McMaster told reporters at the end of a Group of Seven summit in Sicily. “He did not make a decision not to say it. It was implicit in the speech. There was no decision to not put it in there.”

(Article 5 is the whole point of NATO. Trump claims to understand and support NATO, at least for fighting terrorism: http://thehill.com/policy/international/330245-trump-didnt-know-much-about-nato-when-he-called-it-obsolete-report)

http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2016/12/joe-biden-presidential-election-2020
	Why Biden 2020 Isn’t As Crazy As It Sounds

	by Abigail Tracy

	...Biden harkens superficially back to an older, whiter time

	...Sure, he’d be pushing 80 by the time he returned to lead the country.


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/11/us/politics/trump-intelligence-report-explainer.html
	What We Know and Don’t Know About the Trump-Russia Dossier

	By SCOTT SHANE

	Last June, after evidence of Russian hacking of Democratic targets surfaced, Fusion GPS **hired a retired British intelligence officer**, Christopher Steele, to investigate Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia.

	...Mr. Steele, who had long experience in Russia and a network of connections there, compiled **dozens of reports** detailing what he heard from his contacts. The memos he wrote, mostly one to three pages long, are dated from June to December.

	...The memos contain **unsubstantiated claims that Russian officials tried to obtain influence over Mr. Trump** by preparing to blackmail him with sex tapes and bribe him with business deals.

	...Fusion GPS and Mr. Steele shared the memos first with their clients, and later with the F.B.I. and multiple journalists at The New York Times and elsewhere.

	The memos, totaling about 35 pages, also **reached a number of members of Congress.**

 	Last week, when **the F.B.I., C.I.A. and National Security Agency gave a classified report** on the Russian hacking, leaking and efforts to influence the presidential election to Mr. Obama, Mr. Trump and congressional leaders, they attached a two-page summary of the unverified allegations in the memos.

	...Whether any of the claims in the memos are true. American intelligence agencies have not confirmed them, and **Mr. Trump has said they are a complete fabrication.**

	...Who concocted the information in the memos, if it is entirely false or partly so, and with what purpose. If all the information in the dossier is false, it **is a very sophisticated fabrication.**

	What exactly prompted American intelligence officials to pass on a summary of the unvetted claims to Mr. Obama, Mr. Trump and Congress. Officials have said they felt the president-elect should be aware of the memos, which had circulated widely in Washington. But putting the summary in a report that went to multiple people in Congress and the executive branch made it **very likely that it would be leaked.**

	...So what changed on Tuesday? Why is this now being reported?

	CNN broke the news that a summary of the memos had been attached to the classified report by the F.B.I., C.I.A. and National Security Agency on the Russian hacking and leaking, and that it had been given to Mr. Obama, Mr. Trump and congressional leaders last week. That level of official attention prompted news organizations to decide to inform the public about the memos.

http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/29/world/europe/29spy.html
	In Ordinary Lives, U.S. Sees the Work of Russian Agents

	By SCOTT SHANE and CHARLIE SAVAGE JUNE 28, 2010 

	The alleged agents were directed to gather information on nuclear weapons, American policy toward Iran, C.I.A. leadership, Congressional politics and many other topics, prosecutors say. The Russian spies made contact with a former high-ranking American national security official and a nuclear weapons researcher, among others. But the charges did not include espionage, and it was unclear what secrets the suspected spy ring — which included five couples — actually managed to collect.

	...“The magnitude, and the fact that so many illegals were involved, was a shock to me,” said Oleg D. Kalugin, a former K.G.B. general who was a Soviet spy in the United States in the 1960s and 1970s under “legal” cover as a diplomat and Radio Moscow correspondent. “It’s a return to the old days, but even in the worst years of the cold war, I think there were no more than 10 illegals in the U.S., probably fewer.”


http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/01/donald-trump-intelligence-report-buzzfeed-cnn-coup-214623
	The Coup Before the Inauguration

	To hear Donald Trump tell it, BuzzFeed and CNN teamed up with a rogue intelligence community to slime him and destroy his presidency. But what other choice did they have?

	By Jack Shafer January 11, 2017

	...If you’re asking if I would have published the raw report if I had been sitting in the editor Ben Smith’s BuzzFeed cockpit, the answer is yes. No competent journalist publishes oppo research without confirming and placing it in context, so I stand with the major news organizations that did not publish during the campaign. But when such a report is flung about by people in power, as this one was, and its allegations are beginning to inform governance, more damage is done to trust in government and confidence in journalism by withholding it from public scrutiny.

	...Perhaps the leading indicator that the dossier isn’t pure invention comes from Russia itself, which has officially announced that the report is “pulp fiction” and an “absolute fabrication.” A Kremlin spokesman said, “The Kremlin has no compromising information on Trump.” Oh, come on! The Kremlin must have some compromising information on everybody in the U.S. within reach of the tendrils of power, especially folks like Trump who have traveled there. The Russians are protesting a tad too much. Hell, the Kremlin probably has compromising information on your mother.

http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/05/17/hr-mcmaster-trump-leak-russian-classified-intel-215149
	H.R. McMaster Takes a Dive
	The national security adviser’s fanboys are having a sad over his shilling for Baby Donald.
	By Jack Shafer  May 17


http://www.motherjones.com/kevin-drum/2017/03/dossier-looking-more-credible-all-time/
	The Trump “Dossier” Is Looking More Credible All the Time
	Kevin Drum
	Mar. 30, 2017

		...The most explosive allegation that the dossier says originally came from Millian is the claim that Trump had hired prostitutes at the Moscow Ritz-Carlton and that the Kremlin has kept evidence of the encounter.

	Nobody knows for sure if Millian is genuinely plugged in at high levels, or if he’s just a fast-talking huckster. But put all this together and it’s easy to see why the Trump-Russia story won’t go away. The FBI believes Steele to be credible. In the cases where it’s been possible to check out the allegations in the dossier, they’ve turned out to be true. Other intelligence corroborates much of the alleged Russian activity. And Millian’s claims are genuinely explosive.

http://www.motherjones.com/kevin-drum/2017/05/mcmaster-trumps-blabbing-was-totally-appropriate
	McMaster: Trump's Blabbing Was "Wholly Appropriate"
	Kevin Drum  May 16


http://www.cnn.com/2017/04/18/politics/fbi-dossier-carter-page-donald-trump-russia-investigation/index.html
	FBI used dossier allegations to bolster Trump-Russia investigation

	By Evan Perez, Shimon Prokupecz and Manu Raju, CNN

http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/10/politics/russia-dossier-update/index.html
	US investigators corroborate some aspects of the Russia dossier

	By Jim Sciutto and Evan Perez, CNN

https://web.archive.org/web/20100704035145/http://blogs.wsj.com:80/washwire/2010/06/29/alleged-russian-spies-a-novel-idea/
	Alleged Russian Spies: A Novel Idea?

	By Evan Perez

	The criminal complaints filed by U.S. prosecutors don’t portray any significant U.S. secrets that may have been compromised by the agents; in fact FBI wiretaps captured two of them discussing that they likely couldn’t pass vetting if they tried to get a U.S. government job. 


http://www.msnbc.com/rachel-maddow-show/what-happened-donald-trumps-russia-scandal
	What happened to Donald Trump’s Russia scandal?
	02/10/17 04:15 PM
	By Steve Benen

	In the meantime, Russia is taking steps that make it seem as if some in Putin’s government believe the details in the now-infamous dossier may be true.

http://www.msnbc.com/rachel-maddow-show/trumps-national-security-advisor-comes-the-wrong-defense
	 Trump’s National Security Advisor comes up with the wrong defense
	 By Steve Benen  May 16


https://patribotics.blog/2017/02/26/planespotting-michael-cohens-amazing-journey-louise-mensch/
	Planespotting: Michael Cohen’s Amazing Journey

	When the Steele dossier was published by Buzzfeed, with an entirely appropriate amount of caveats, other journalistic outlets rushed to pour cold water on it, and wrongly so.

	Chief among these was CNN. Acting as if Buzzfeed had not offered caveats alongside the publication, CNN blasted the news site as though they had irresponsibly published ‘fake news’.


http://money.cnn.com/2017/05/17/media/fbi-raid-orrin-hatch-russian-election-meddling/index.html
	How an FBI raid fed a rumor that Orrin Hatch was about to become president

	For a moment last week, a part of the Internet thought Utah Senator Orrin Hatch was on the verge of becoming president of the United States.

	On Thursday, in a pair of unproven reports on her website Patribotics, Mensch wrote that Hatch was "likely to become president" should President Trump be removed from office -- because, she said, Trump and the next two people in the Constitutional line of succession were likely swept up in the Russian plot to sway the US election and, thus, ineligible for the presidency. 


http://www.businessinsider.com/trump-russia-dossier-fbi-investigation-2017-3
	The FBI is reportedly using the explosive Trump-Russia dossier as a 'roadmap' for its investigation
	Natasha Bertrand

	The relationship was so "chummy" that the FBI offered to pay Steele to continue his work in October, The Washington Post reported last month.

https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/fbi-once-planned-to-pay-former-british-spy-who-authored-controversial-trump-dossier/2017/02/28/896ab470-facc-11e6-9845-576c69081518_story.html
	...Ultimately, the FBI did not pay Steele.

	...Those people say Steele’s frustration with the FBI peaked after an Oct. 31 New York Times story that cited law enforcement sources drawing conclusions that he considered premature. The article said that the FBI had not yet found any “conclusive or direct link” between Trump and the Russian government and that the Russian hacking was not intended to help Trump.

	...“The [intelligence community] has not made any judgment that the information in this document is reliable, and we did not rely upon it in any way for our conclusions,” then-Director of National Intelligence James R. Clapper Jr. said in a statement in January.

http://www.businessinsider.com/carter-page-fbi-dossier-fisa-warrant-case-2017-4
	We just got a huge sign that the US intelligence community believes the Trump dossier is legitimate
   	Natasha Bertrand

https://finance.yahoo.com/news/national-security-experts-trumps-sharing-135600288.html
	National security experts: Trump's sharing classified info with Russia 'may breach his oath of office'
	Natasha Bertrand

	..."This story is nauseating," Benjamin Wittes, a senior fellow in Governance Studies at The Brookings Institution, posted on Twitter along with a link to The Washington Post's bombshell story. "You might have to work with natsec," or national security, "people to understand how bad it is, but it's horrible. Really really bad."

http://www.businessinsider.my/mcmaster-trump-russia-classified-information-2017-5/
	Trump’s national security adviser: He ‘wasn’t even aware’ of where information he shared with Russians came from

	Natasha Bertrand 

	...McMaster did not confirm whether the information Trump disclosed was classified, or if it came from a US ally. But he suggested Trump did not intend to reveal classified information because he “did not even know where that information came from.” 

https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/16/mcmaster_national_security_put_at_risk_by_leaks_like_washington_post_story.html
	QUESTION: General, when you came out after the story broke, you said that the president did not disclose any sources or methods. He did not reveal anything about military operations. Why were you denying things that were not even reported? What the report said is that the president revealed classified information that had been shared by one of our allies in the Middle East. So the question is simply a yes or no question here. Did the president share classified information with the Russians in that meeting?

	MCMASTER: As I mentioned already, we don't say what's classified, what's not classified. What I will tell you again is that what the president shared was wholly appropriate. The story -- the story combined what was leaked with other information and then -- and the insinuated about sources and methods. So I wanted to make clear to everybody that the president in no way compromised any sources or methods in the course of this conversation.


But some major claims in the dossier don't hold up. A lot of the dossier is about a momentous secret meeting between Russian officials and Trump lawyer Micheal Cohen and that allegedly took place in August 2016 in Prague:


https://archive.org/stream/TrumpIntelligenceAllegations_201701/Trump-Intelligence-Allegations_djvu.txt
	Speaking to a compatriot and friend on 19 October 2016, a Kremlin insider provided further details of reported clandestine meeting/ s between Republican presidential candidate, Donald TRUMP'S lawyer Michael COHEN and Kremlin representatives in August 2016. Although the communication between them had to be cryptic for security reasons, the Kremlin insider clearly indicated to his/her friend that the reported contact /s took place in Prague, Czech Republic.

	...Rossotrudnichestvo was being used as cover for this relationship and its office in Prague may well have been used to host the COHEN / Russian Presidential Administration (PA) meeting /s. It was considered a "plausibly deniable" vehicle for this, whilst remaining entirely under Kremlin control. 

	...KOSACHEV, also "plausibly deniable" being part of the Russian legislature rather than executive, had facilitated the contact in Prague and by implication, may have attended the meeting/ s with COHEN there in August.

	...US/RUSSIA: FURTHER DETAILS OF SECRET DIALOGUE BETWEEN TRUMP CAMPAIGN TEAM, KREMLIN AND ASSOCIATED HACKERS IN PRAGUE 

	- TRUMP’s representative COHEN accompanied to Prague in August/September 2016 by 3 colleagues for secret discussions with Kremlin representatives and associated operators/hackers 

	1. We reported previously (2016/135 and /136) on secret meeting/s held in Prague, Czech Republic in August 2016 between then Republican presidential candidate Donald TRUMP's representative, Michael COHEN and his interlocutors from the Kremlin working under cover of Russian 'NGO' Rossotrudnichestvo. 

	...COHEN had been accompanied to Prague by 3 colleagues and the timing of the visit was either in the last week of August or the first week of September. One of their main Russian interlocutors was Oleg SOLODUKHIN operating under Rossotrudnichestvo cover. According the agenda comprised questions on how deniable cash payments were to be made to hackers who had worked in Europe under Kremlin direction against the CLINTON campaign and various contingencies for covering up these operations and Moscow's secret liaison with the TRUMP team more generally. 

	In Prague, COHEN agreed contingency plans for various scenarios to protect the operation

	...We reported earlier that the involvement of political operatives Paul MANAFORT and Carter PAGE in the secret TRUMP- Kremlin liaison had been exposed in the media in the run-up to Prague and that damage limitation of these also was discussed by COHEN with the Kremlin representatives


But Czech intelligence said they found no evidence Cohen travelled to Prague:


https://www.rferl.org/a/czech-intelligence-trump-lawyer-prague-meeting/28226228.html
	January 11, 2017 15:27 GMT 

	PRAGUE -- A Czech investigative journal quotes local intelligence officers as saying they have no evidence that a lawyer for President-elect Donald Trump traveled to the Czech capital last year, potentially dealing a blow to a claim at the center of an unverified text suggesting Russia had compromising materials on the billionaire developer.

	The lawyer, Michael Cohen, has already dismissed reports that he met in Prague with Russian agents over possible influence on the 2016 presidential election, and said he has never been to the city.

	A Czech intelligence source told the Respekt magazine that there is no record of Cohen arriving in Prague by plane, although the news weekly pointed out he could have traveled by car or train from a nearby EU country, avoiding passport control under Schengen zone travel rules.

	"If there was such a meeting, he [Cohen] didn’t arrive in the Czech Republic by plane," the source said.


nor did the FBI:


https://www.wsj.com/articles/spy-agencies-investigating-claims-trump-advisers-worked-with-russian-agents-1484101731
	Spy Agencies Investigating Claims Trump Advisers Worked With Russian Agents

	By Shane Harris, Devlin Barrett and Alan Cullison

	U.S. intelligence agencies and the Federal Bureau of Investigation have spent months trying to substantiate explosive claims, compiled by a former Western intelligence official, that Russian government operatives engaged in an extensive conspiracy with advisers to Donald Trump's presidential campaign and employees of his company, people familiar with the matter said.

	...The FBI has found no evidence that he traveled to the Czech Republic, where the meeting allegedly took place in August of last year, officials said.


and CNN reports that it was a different Micheal Cohen who went to Prague:


https://twitter.com/jaketapper/status/819187673961287681?lang=en
	6:22 AM - 11 Jan 2017

	In this uncorroborated report it talks about Micheal Cohen Trump's official corporate lawyer making a trip to the Czech Republic. My reporting suggests that people did try to run that down and they concluded that it was a different Micheal Cohen. It was a Micheal Cohen with a passport from another country; the same birth year, different birth date. So for Micheal Cohen to dispute that he was in the Czech Republic completely confirms and comports with our reporting, and its one of the reasons why the intelligence chiefs did not get specific with these allegations, and that's why I hope at the press conference today people are more general and don't get into the specifics because a lot of that stuff just has not been proven.


A lot of the dossier's claims don't make sense:


https://archive.org/stream/TrumpIntelligenceAllegations_201701/Trump-Intelligence-Allegations_djvu.txt
	The reason for using WikiLeaks was "plausible deniability” and the operation had been conducted with the full knowledge and support of TRUMP and senior members of his campaign team. In return the TRUMP team had agreed to sideline Russian intervention in Ukraine as a campaign issue and to raise US/NATO defence commitments in the Baltics and Eastern Europe to deflect attention away from Ukraine, a priority for PUTIN who needed to cauterise the subject. 


If this was Putin's plan, it wasn't a very good one. All Trump did was draw attention to Ukraine:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/global-opinions/trump-campaign-guts-gops-anti-russia-stance-on-ukraine/2016/07/18/98adb3b0-4cf3-11e6-a7d8-13d06b37f256_story.html
	Trump campaign guts GOP’s anti-Russia stance on Ukraine


https://qz.com/650201/donald-trump-hired-an-advisor-to-ukraines-notorious-former-president-putin-buddy-viktor-yanukovych/
	Donald Trump has hired an experienced political operative to help wrangle GOP delegates: Paul Manafort, a strategist with three decades of Republican conventions under his belt, who has also worked for some unsavory international clients.

	That roster includes the pro-Russian former president of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, who was deposed in a popular revolution in 2013.


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/dec/06/ukraine-trump-presidency-russia-putin
	'It's a pretty disturbing time for Ukraine': Trump's Russia ties unnerve Kiev 


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/760095370185674752
	When I said in an interview that Putin is "not going into Ukraine, you can mark it down," I am saying if I am President. Already in Crimea!


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/831846101179314177
	Crimea was TAKEN by Russia during the Obama Administration. Was Obama too soft on Russia?


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/820789938887294977
	much worse - just look at Syria (red line), Crimea, Ukraine and the build-up of Russian nukes. Not good! Was this the leaker of Fake News?


Trump doesn't sounds like someone who "agreed to sideline Ukraine" in some kind of deal. He comes off as an obsequious Putin fan who doesn't know what he's doing:


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/862788002594127873/photo/1
	Yesterday, on the same day- I had meetings with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and the FM of Ukraine, Pavlo Klimkin. #LetsMakePeace!


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/814919370711461890
	Great move on delay (by V. Putin) - I always knew he was very smart!


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/347191326112112640
	Do you think Putin will be going to The Miss Universe Pageant in November in Moscow - if so, will he become my new best friend?

	8:17 PM - 18 Jun 2013


And Trump has been convinced "other countries are ripping us off" for decades:


http://www.apnewsarchive.com/1987/Trump-U-S-Should-Stop-Paying-To-Defend-Countries-that-Can-Protect-Selves/id-05133dbe63ace98766527ec7d16ede08
	Sep. 1, 1987 

	NEW YORK (AP) _ Real estate developer Donald J. Trump bought full-page ads in three major U.S. newspapers to say the United States should stop paying to defend countries that can afford to protect themselves.

	The advertisements appeared in Wednesday's New York Times, Washington Post and Boston Globe at a total cost of $94,801, said Trump spokesman Daniel Klores.

	The ads bore the headline, ''There's nothing wrong with America's Foreign Defense Policy that a little backbone can't cure.''

	''For decades, Japan and other nations have been taking advantage of the United States'' and that it has been costing this nation in terms of the economy, deficit and taxes, the ad said. ''The saga continues unabated as we defend the Persian Gulf.''

	Trump described the Gulf as ''an area of only marginal significance to the United States for its oil supplies, but one upon which Japan and others are almost totally dependent.''

	''Why are these nations not paying the United States for the human lives and billions of dollars we are losing to protect their interests? ... The world is laughing at America's politicians as we protect ships we don't own, carrying oil we don't need, destined for allies who won't help.''

	Trump's name has been mentioned for various public offices, including mayor of New York City, governor and the presidency.

	Asked if Trump's letter had anything to do with political aspirations, Klores said, ''Right now Donald Trump has no ambition to seek political office of any kind.'' 


https://votesmart.org/public-statement/367/discusses-his-bid-for-the-reform-party-presidential-nomination-interview
	Oct. 24, 1999

	MR. TRUMP: Well, I mean, I think there is a certain controversy to me. And I am single. And I do go out with women. And I do respect and adore women. And some women love me and probably some women don’t. But I am certainly controversial. But I also am a great businessman. I’d make the greatest treaties that this country has seen in a long time. Other countries wouldn’t be ripping us off like they’re doing, when you look at what Japan has been doing to us for so many years and decades. I mean, they wouldn’t be ripping us like they are, and things would happen.


http://www.cnn.com/ALLPOLITICS/stories/1999/10/08/trump.transcript/
	October 8, 1999

	I am for whatever it takes. We have the money. The fact is, that the world is ripping off this country: Germany is ripping us off big league; Saudi Arabia is ripping us off big league; France, I mean, they’re the worst team player I’ve ever seen in my life. You look at what’s happened, Japan, for years, I mean, we’re like a whipping post for Japan.


http://www.foxnews.com/transcript/2011/04/15/exclusive-donald-trump-rips-into-president-obama-past/
	Published April 15, 2011

	HANNITY: And what have you come up with your investigators?

	TRUMP: Well, I don’t want to say that now. But it is going to be very interesting. But I don’t want to say it now, Sean. But I will say this, I don’t love this issue. I’d much rather be talking about how China is ripping us off, how OPEC is — that’s what I’m really good at. I understand it. I can do such a great job.


http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/03/27/americas-allies-are-ripping-us-off-says-donald-trump/
	27 March 2016 • 8:52pm

	America’s allies are “ripping us off” says Donald Trump


And he has long held warm feelings toward the Russian government:


http://www.nytimes.com/1987/07/03/nyregion/trump-wins-approval-for-3d-casino-in-jersey.html
	July 3, 1987

	Mr. Trump also said he would leave Friday for Moscow to pursue an invitation to build a hotel across from the Kremlin. 

	...Of the Moscow project, Mr. Trump said he did not know how large the hotel would be. He plans to be in Moscow for six days as a guest of the Government to examine the site and look into details. He said it would be his first trip to the Soviet Union. Kremlin Wants a Trump Tower

	The New York developer said the Soviet Government wanted a hotel ''with the feel of Trump Tower.'' 


http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/the_spectator/2016/03/trump_s_nuclear_experience_advice_for_reagan_in_1987.html
	So what is the deal Trump thinks can be done? What is the Trump Plan?

	It’s a deal with the Soviets. We approach them on this basis: We both recognize the nonproliferation treaty’s not working, that half a dozen countries are on the brink of getting a bomb. Which can only cause trouble for the two of us. The deterrence of mutual assured destruction that prevents the United States and the USSR from nuking each other won’t work on the level of an India-Pakistan nuclear exchange. Or a madman dictator with a briefcase-bomb team. The only answer is for the Big Two to make a deal now to step in and prevent the next generation of nations about to go nuclear from doing so. By whatever means necessary.

	“Most of those [pre-nuclear] countries are in one form or another dominated by the U.S. and the Soviet Union,” Trump says. “Between those two nations you have the power to dominate any of those countries. So we should use our power of economic retaliation and they use their powers of retaliation and between the two of us we will prevent the problem from happening.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/russia-trump-political-conflict-zone/story?id=42263092
	There is ample evidence in Russian media from that period in the 2000s that brokers mounted a significant effort to attract buyers to Trump properties in Florida, Toronto and New York. And Trump and his children participated in those campaigns.
	
	During the marketing of the Trump SoHo project, in which Trump licensed his name to a group that included Russian investors, the Trump family met with a group of Russian journalists at their New York offices to help boost interest in the project, according to Russian media reports. During the meeting, Trump was quoted telling the gathering of Russian journalists: “I really like Vladimir Putin. I respect him. He does his work well. Much better than our Bush.”


Reading between the lines, it sounds like Trump's position on NATO being "obsolete" might have something to do with his feelings about Russia:


http://ktla.com/2017/04/12/trump-reverses-position-says-nato-no-longer-obsolete/
	Trump said Wednesday he’d changed views after NATO’s leaders assured him the group would turn its attention to combating groups like ISIS going forward.

	“The secretary general and I had a productive discussion about what more NATO can do in the fight against terrorism,” Trump said. “I complained about that a long time ago, and they made a change and now they do fight terrorism.”


(e.g. "the Warsaw pact dissolved, so NATO is obsolete!")


In sum, Putin wouldn't need to make a deal with Trump to "raise US/NATO defence commitments." He'd do it on his own (or with some prodding by agents of influence close to him).

(And you have to wonder where Trump got the idea that NATO is "obsolete" or "needs to pay up?"  I don't actually know, but this might be a start: http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/why-cant-our-allies-defend-themselves-19880616).


The dossier tries to make Trump sound like a witting spy for Russia:


https://archive.org/stream/TrumpIntelligenceAllegations_201701/Trump-Intelligence-Allegations_djvu.txt
	...In terms of the intelligence flow from the TRUMP team to Russia, Source E reported that much of this concerned the activities of business oligarchs and their families’ activities and assets in the US, with which PUTIN and the Kremlin seemed preoccupied. 

	...the emigre confirmed that an intelligence exchange had been running between them for at least 8 years. Within this context PUTIN'S priority requirement had been for intelligence on the activities, business and otherwise, in the US of leading Russian oligarchs and their families. TRUMP and his associates duly had obtained and supplied the Kremlin with this information.


But that's not consistent with how Russia's influence operations have worked historically (e.g with Gore, Mao: https://pastebin.com/r5PHGSnz), and Trump has all the hallmarks of a "useful idiot" who actually believes what he's saying. Russia puts out their propaganda because it works--there are people who actually believe it. It looks like Donald Trump actually believes it: 


http://www.politicususa.com/2017/06/03/nbc-news-refuses-report-trump-london-bridge-tweet-false-info.html
	Donald Trump retweeted:

		Fears of new terror attack after van 'mows down 20 people' on London Bridge…

		— DRUDGE REPORT (@DRUDGE_REPORT) June 3, 2017

	Trump then tweeted a plea for his travel ban as a tool to fight terrorism:

	We need to be smart, vigilant and tough. We need the courts to give us back our rights. We need the Travel Ban as an extra level of safety!

		— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 3, 2017


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/527388136306143232
	Just out - the POLAR ICE CAPS are at an all time high, the POLAR BEAR population has never been stronger. Where the hell is global warming?

	2:15 AM - 29 Oct 2014


https://www.infowars.com/penguins-polar-bears-glaciers-arctic-ice-all-thriving/
	Global warming alarmists debunked yet again by reality

	Even as climate alarmists amplify their call for a worldwide tax on carbon dioxide emissions in the name of preventing global warming – penguins, polar bears, Himalayan glaciers and Arctic sea ice are all thriving.


https://www.infowars.com/polar-bear-numbers-still-on-the-rise-despite-global-warming/
	Polar Bear Numbers Still On The Rise, Despite Global Warming


http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2014/03/28/trump-weighs-in-on-vaccine-autism-controversy/
	March 28th, 2014 

	Trump weighs in on vaccine-autism controversy

 	Donald Trump appears to be once again suggesting a link between vaccines and the rise in autism, a theory that's been debunked numerous times in recent years.

	"If I were President I would push for proper vaccinations but would not allow one time massive shots that a small child cannot take – AUTISM," the business mogul and reality TV star wrote on Twitter Thursday evening.


https://www.infowars.com/nearly-two-dozen-medical-studies-prove-that-vaccines-can-cause-autism/
	Nearly two dozen medical studies prove that vaccines can cause autism


https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/style/how-alex-jones-conspiracy-theorist-extraordinaire-got-donald-trumps-ear/2016/11/17/583dc190-ab3e-11e6-8b45-f8e493f06fcd_story.html
	Last December, amid the jumbled Republican presidential nomination scrum, Donald Trump carved out a half an hour for a live video interview with a volcanic Austin radio and web-streaming host who broadcasts from a semi-secret location dubbed “The Central Texas Command Center and the Heart of the Resistance.”

	Alex Jones, America’s foremost purveyor of outlandish conspiracy theories, was in a buoyant mood that day. He’d had Matt Drudge, the influential conservative news aggregator, on recently. But this was much bigger.

	Trump wasted no time signaling that his mind-set aligned with the host’s. Trump said he wouldn’t apologize for asserting that large numbers of Muslims in New Jersey celebrated the collapse of the twin towers in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, a claim that fact-checkers have repeatedly refuted.

	“People like you and I can’t do that so easily,” the New York developer, speaking from his office in Trump Tower, said. He would later call Jones “a nice guy.”

	The December interview would reverberate into the general election as Hillary Clinton tried to use it to paint Trump as an irresponsible crackpot associating with an irresponsible crackpot. It also pushed Jones, who operates the websites Infowars.com and Prisonplanet.com, from the realm of niche showman into the mainstream national dialogue. The man who said that the Newtown, Conn., school shooting was a “hoax” involving child actors and claimed that elements of the U.S. government were responsible for bombing the Oklahoma City federal building and for the 9/11 attacks had been granted an enormous new audience.

	“I think Alex Jones may be the single most important voice in the alternative conservative media,” says Roger Stone, the Nixon-era political trickster who orchestrated Trump’s appearance on the show.

	...Now, another Anderson company, Genesis Communications Network, syndicates the Alex Jones program to 129 radio stations, many of them in small markets. It’s difficult to confirm Jones’s audience size, but the host has said he has 5 million daily radio listeners and recently topped 80 million video views in a single month. He claims to have a bigger audience than Rush Limbaugh.

	Jones is able to multiply his audience by simulcasting his radio programming via his website and further spreading its reach on his YouTube channel. The costs are minuscule in comparison to running, say, a cable television network, and it’s conceivable he could be generating millions in profits. 


The Russians wouldn't need to blackmail or pay Trump for him to revere Putin or support disastrous policies that favor them--that's already in their propaganda, and he believes it. Basically, they've already got his mind.


There's a lot that's off with the dossier:


https://archive.org/stream/TrumpIntelligenceAllegations_201701/Trump-Intelligence-Allegations_djvu.txt
	So far TRUMP has declined various sweetener real estate business deals offered him in Russia in order to further the Kremlin’s cultivation of him.

	...The Kremlin’s cultivation operation on TRUMP also comprised offering him various lucrative real estate development business deals in Russia, especially in relation to the ongoing Cup soccer tournament However, so far, for reasons unknown, TRUMP had not taken up any of these

	However, there were other aspects to TRUMP’s engagement with the Russian authorities. One which had borne fruit for them was to exploit TRUMP'S personal obsessions and sexual perversion

	...Finally, regarding TRUMP’s claimed minimal investment profile in Russia, a separate source with direct knowledge said this had not been for want of trying. TRUMP's previous efforts had included exploring the real estate sector in St Petersburg as well as Moscow but in the end TRUMP had had to settle for the use of extensive sexual services there from local prostitutes rather than business success. 


The dossier downplays Trump's business connections with Russia, saying Trump "opted for extensive sexual services" instead (how does that even work? "Sorry, we won't let you build a hotel here, but here's a complementary prostitute?"). But this is misleading--if Trump doesn't make "business deals" in Russia, he does make deals with Russians:


http://www.nydailynews.com/news/world/russian-mogul-pays-donald-trump-100-million-florida-mansion-article-1.294453
	June 21, 2008
     
	A Russian billionaire paid Donald Trump a staggering $100 million for a beachfront Florida mansion — although the new digs don’t mean the new owner’s bidding dosvidaniya to his Moscow home.
     
     Dmitry Rybolovlev, 41, who made his fortune in fertilizer, said his big-bucks buy of the 6.5-acre Maison de l’Amitie property in Palm Beach was simply an investment.


http://www.eturbonews.com/5008/executive-talk-donald-trump-jr-bullish-russia-and-few-emerging-ma
	Sep 15, 2008

	Executive Talk: Donald Trump Jr. bullish on Russia and few emerging markets

	“And in terms of high-end product influx into the US, Russians make up a pretty disproportionate cross-section of a lot of our assets; say in Dubai, and certainly with our project in SoHo and anywhere in New York. We see a lot of money pouring in from Russia.


"A pretty disproportionate cross-section of a lot of our assets" doesn't sound like a "minimal investment profile."


Reportedly, some of these deals show up on Trump's tax returns:


http://money.cnn.com/2017/05/12/news/trump-tax-returns-russia/index.html
	The letter also asserts that the returns show no debt owed to or interest paid to Russian lenders by Trump or his business entities.

	In addition, the returns show no Russian investments in Trump's businesses or any investment by Trump or the entities he controls in Russian businesses, the lawyers said.

	But the letter acknowledges that there are three exceptions. The first was income Trump received from the 2013 Miss Universe pageant held in Moscow. The second was income from the sale of a Florida estate in 2008 by Trump Properties LLC to a Russian billionaire. And the third is the "ordinary course sales of goods and services to Russians or Russian entities, such as sales/rentals/fees for condominiums, hotel rooms, rounds of golf, books or Trump-licensed products."

	But in this third exception, the letter asserted, "the amounts are immaterial." 


The dossier downplays the idea that Trump could be blackmailed for business deals with Russians, and plays-up that he could be blackmailed for perverted sexual acts. But it looks like it's the other way around (Trump asked the FBI to investigate the "Russian hookers" claim, even though he doesn't trust the intelligence community: http://www.businessinsider.com/comey-trump-russian-hookers-dossier-2017-6).


The dossier makes some confusing claims about Putin's intent:


https://archive.org/stream/TrumpIntelligenceAllegations_201701/Trump-Intelligence-Allegations_djvu.txt
	- Ex-Ukrainian President YANUKOVYCH confides directly to PUTIN that he authorised kick-back payments to MANAFORT, as alleged in western media. Assures Russian President however there is no documentary evidence/trail 

	PUTIN and Russian leadership remain worried however and sceptical that YANUKOVYCH has fully covered the traces of these payments to TRUMP’s former campaign manager 

	...Speaking in confidence to a compatriot in late July 2016, Source E, and ethnic Russian close associate of US presidential candidate Donald Trump, admitted that there was a well-developed conspiracy of co-operation between then and Russian leadership. This was managed on the TRUMP side by the Republican candidate's campaign manager, Paul MANAFORT, who was using foreign policy advisor, Carter PAGE, and others as intermediaries. The two sides had a mutual interest in defeating Democratic presidential candidate Hillary CLINTON, whom President PUTIN apparently both hated and feared.

	...We reported previously, in our Company Intelligence Report 2016/135 of 19 October 2016 from the same source, that COHEN met officials from the PA Legal Department clandestinely in an EU country in August 2016. This was in order to clean up the mess left behind by western media  revelations of TRUMP ex-campaign manager MANAFORT's corrupt relationship with the former pro-Russian YANUKOVYCH regime in Ukraine and TRUMP foreign policy advisor, Carter PAGE'S secret meetings in Moscow with senior regime figures in July 2016. According to the Kremlin advisor, these meeting/ s were originally scheduled for COHEN in Moscow but shifted to what was considered an operationally "soft" EU country when it was judged too compromising for him to travel to the Russian capital. 

	...

	1. Speaking in late August 2016, in the immediate aftermath of Paul MANAFORT’s resignation as campaign manager for US Republican presidential candidate Donald TRUMP, a well-placed Russian figure reported on a recent meeting between President PUTIN and ex-President YANUKOVYCH of Ukraine. This had been held in secret on 15 August near Volgograd, Russia and the western media revelations about MANAFORT and Ukraine had featured prominently on the agenda. YANUKOVYCH had confided in PUTIN that he did authorise and order substantial kick-back payments to MANAFORT as alleged but sought to reassure him that there was no documentary trail left behind which could provide clear evidence of this. 

	2. Given YANUKOVYCH'S (unimpressive) record in covering up his own corrupt tracks in the past, PUTIN and others in the Russian leadership were sceptical about the ex-Ukrainian president’s reassurances on this as relating to MANAFORT. They therefore still feared the scandal had legs, especially as MANAFORT had been commercially active in Ukraine right up to the time (in March 2016) when he joined TRUMP's campaign team. For them it therefore remained a point of potential political vulnerability and embarrassment. 


The dossier says Putin choose Manafort and Page to help him secretly collude with Trump, and that Putin was worried when news reports revealed Yankovych was paying Manafort under-the-table (e.g. https://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/20/us/politics/paul-manafort-resigns-donald-trump.html). But it was revealed years ago that Manafort was working for Yanukovych:


http://www.politico.com/story/2014/03/paul-manafort-ukraine-104263
	Mystery man: Ukraine's U.S. fixer

	By Alexander Burns and Maggie Haberman

	03/05/2014 05:01 AM EST 

	...Today, Paul Manafort is more like The Invisible Man — a worldly political pro whose latest adventure, whispering in the ear of Ukrainian presidential candidate Viktor Yanukovych, has handed him a supporting role in a bona fide international crisis. 

	...Manafort’s firm had a set of international clients and produced an analysis of the Orange Revolution that Yanukovych found instructive, according to one operative involved in Yanukovych’s political rehabilitation. Manafort became, in effect, a general consultant to Yanukovych’s Party of Regions, shaping big-picture messaging, coaching Yanukovych to speak in punchy, American-style sound bites and managing teams of consultants and attorneys in both Ukraine and the United States ahead of an anticipated Yanukovych comeback. While it’s difficult to track payments in foreign elections, a former associate familiar with Manafort’s earnings say they ran into the seven figures over several years.

	...A 2008 disclosure form filed by Edelman under the Foreign Agents Registration Act described the Yanukovych team’s determination to “share [Yanukovych’s] vision for Ukraine, his reform slated for 2008, his accomplishments in economic development as well as Ukraine’s business development.” The PR firm earned $35,000 a month for its services. 

	...And one operative closely involved in Ukraine emphasized that what may have started as a straightforward business transaction between Davis Manafort and Yanukovych grew into a “real and close relationship” between Manafort and his candidate over the course of the election. 


And Putin has openly admitted to colluding with him:


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-29761799
	Putin: Russia helped Yanukovych to flee Ukraine

	..."I will say it openly - he asked to be driven away to Russia, which we did," the Russian president said.


And if Putin wanted to avoid being tied to the Trump campaign, he would have known Page would be a bad choice of "intermediary":


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/04/us/politics/carter-page-trump-russia.html?mcubz=1
	The businessman, Carter Page, met with one of three Russians who were eventually charged with being undeclared officers with Russia’s foreign intelligence service, known as the S.V.R. The F.B.I. interviewed Mr. Page in 2013 as part of an investigation into the spy ring, but decided that he had not known the man was a spy, and the bureau never accused Mr. Page of wrongdoing.

	...According to the court documents filed in 2015, the F.B.I. secretly recorded Mr. Podobnyy and another Russian operative named Igor Sporyshev discussing efforts to recruit Mr. Page, who was then working in New York as a consultant.


But according to the dossier, Putin thinks the recent scandals surrounding Manafort's ties to Yanukovych are a point of "political vulnerability" and "embarrassment" for him, and that Putin is "worried." Worried about what? The only difference between the 2014 and 2016 reports on Manafort's ties to Yanukovych is that the 2016 reports allege under-the-table payments. Is that what Putin is worried about? That Manafort looks more corrupt now?

The dossier mostly paints a picture of Putin trying to avoid being exposed in the media for his meddling in the election and his ties to Trump:


https://archive.org/stream/TrumpIntelligenceAllegations_201701/Trump-Intelligence-Allegations_djvu.txt
	...The two sides had a mutual interest in defeating Democratic presidential candidate Hillary CLINTON, whom President PUTIN apparently both hated and feared.

	...The emigre said there was a high level of anxiety within the TRUMP team as a result of various accusations levelled against them and indications from the Kremlin that President PUTIN and others in the leadership thought things had gone too far now and risked spiralling out of control. 

	Continuing on this theme, the emigre associate of TRUMP opined that the Kremlin wanted the situation to calm but for 'plausible deniability' to be maintained concerning its (extensive) pro-TRUMP and anti-CLINTON operations. S/he therefore judged that it was unlikely these would be ratcheted up, at least for the time being. 

	...the ethnic Russian associate of Trump assessed that the problem was that the TRUMP campaign had underestimated the strength of the negative reaction from liberals and especially the conservative elite to Russian interference. This was forcing a rethink and a likely change of tactics. The main objective in the short term was to check Democratic candidate Hillary CLINTON's successful exploitation of the PUTIN as a bogeyman/Russian interference story to tarnish TRUMP and bolster her own (patriotic) credentials.

	...1. Speaking in confidence to a trusted compatriot in mid-September 2016, a senior member of the Russian Presidential Administration (PA) commented on the political fallout from recent western media revelations about Moscow's intervention, in favour of Donald TRUMP and against Hillary CLINTON, in the US presidential election. The PA official reported that the issue had become incredibly sensitive and that President PUTIN had issued direct orders that Kremlin and government insiders should not discuss it in public or even in private. 

	2. Despite this, the PA official confirmed, from direct knowledge, that the gist of the allegations was true. PUTIN had been receiving conflicting advice on interfering from three separate and expert groups. On one side had been the Russian ambassador to the US, Sergei K1SLYAK, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with an independent and informal network run by presidential foreign policy advisor, Yuri USHAKOV 

	(KISLYAK’s predecessor in Washington) who had urged caution and the potential negative impact on Russia from the operation/s. On the other side was former PA Head, Sergei IVANOV, backed by Russian Foreign Intelligence (SVR), who had advised PUTIN that the pro-TRUMP, anti-CLINTON operation/s would be both effective and plausibly deniable with little blowback. The first group/s had been proven right and this had been the catalyst in PUTIN'S decision to sack IVANOV (unexpectedly) as PA Head in August. His successor, Anton VAINO, had been selected for the job partly because he had not been involved in the US presidential election operation/s. 

	..According to the Kremlin insider, COHEN now was heavily engaged in a cover up and damage limitation operation in the attempt to prevent the full details of TRUMP’s relationship with Russia being exposed. In pursuit of this aim, COHEN had met secretly with several Russian Presidential Administration (PA) Legal Department officials in an EU country in August 2016. The immediate issues had been to contain further scandals involving MANNAFORT's commercial and political role in Russia/Ukraine and to limit the damage arising from exposure of former TRUMP foreign policy advisor, Carter PAGE’S secret meetings with Russian leadership figures in Moscow the previous month. The overall objective had been to “to sweep it all under the carpet and make sure no connections could be fully established or proven" 


But it looks like a lot of the exposés on Putin's meddling come from his own spies (including the "Putin hates and fears Hillary" narrative), particularly those targeting the left:

(context for Russian spies: https://pastebin.com/ar4GWrRT, https://pastebin.com/z49g6KKe, https://pastebin.com/r5PHGSnz, https://pastebin.com/bqyWNzgi)


http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2016/12/russia-putin-hack-dnc-clinton-election-2016-cold-war-214532
	Putin’s Revenge

	By Michael Crowley 

	...Today, as the U.S. grapples with a Russia with resurgent global ambitions, with a Kremlin that hacks our emails, manipulates our news—and, according to the CIA, actively worked to elect Donald Trump—it’s important to realize that for Putin, it’s not just a constant move for advantage. Yes, Putin is pressing Russia’s current interests. But in scheming to defeat Hillary Clinton, and by subjecting American democracy itself to Russian influence, he is also closing a loop opened in part by the Clintons 20 years ago. Putin can’t undo Russia’s Cold War defeat by America. But he can avenge it. And in Donald Trump—the man who defeated Hillary Clinton and seems ready to deal with Putin on terms that few other American politicians would countenance—he hopes he has found a willing partner.

	...But it wasn’t until December 2011 that Putin came to see Hillary Clinton as a direct threat to his power. 

	...In a March 2014 address shortly after claiming Crimea, Putin made clear that he was re-establishing Russia’s place in the global order. He said the world had to “accept the obvious fact: Russia is an independent, active participant in international affairs. Like other countries, it has its own national interests that need to be taken into account and respected.” Translation: Russia would no longer be seated at the kids’ table while Washington dictated world events.

	Increasingly, it has become clear that another foreign nation where Russia has exercised its new influence is the United States itself, where Hillary Clinton’s campaign was beset for months by a steady flow of stolen emails—hacked, according to U.S. intelligence officials, by agents of the Kremlin, likely at Putin’s personal direction.

	It’s impossible to measure the precise effect of the leaked emails on Clinton’s candidacy. But her defeat was unquestionably a win for Putin, who will soon greet an American president leading what could be the most Russia-friendly administration in U.S. history. Putin sent Donald Trump his congratulations within an hour of Clinton’s concession. And when word of Trump’s election reached the Russian Duma, spontaneous applause broke out in the room. 

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/05/16/mcmaster-truth-defense-secrets-238470
	 McMaster tests truth-telling reputation in Trump defense
	H.R. McMaster's strong defense of Trump on Russia leak brings credibility — and sharp criticism.
	By Michael Crowley  May 16


https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2016/11/dont-gamble-on-trump/506207/
	The Conservative Case for Voting for Clinton

	Why support a candidate who rejects your preferences and offends your opinions? Don’t do it for her—do it for the republic, and the Constitution.

	David Frum

https://twitter.com/davidfrum/status/864440403117969408?lang=en
	How does McMaster not resign today? That thing he said "did not happen" the president has just defended doing


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/08/neera-tanden-2016-election-227494
	 Meet Hillary Clinton's anger translator

	In an interview for POLITICO's 'Off Message' podcast, longtime Clinton confidante Neera Tanden sounds off on Bernie Sanders' attacks, the 2016 election coverage and Vladimir Putin.

	By Glenn Thrush 

	...“I think Putin is definitely not a fan of Hillary Clinton's, I mean, look at his own rhetoric,” she told me. “Hillary was very clear in her condemnation of his actions toward democracy protesters. She was very strong and he took that as a very strong affront.”

	Tanden, like many other Clinton advisers, won’t go so far as to allege collusion between Putin and top officials Trump’s campaign — especially former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, who was a high-paid consultant for Putin allies in Ukraine. But she thinks the U.S. body politic is experiencing a foreign invasion unprecedented in history by a Russian interloper she describes as a “proto-fascist” strongman.

http://www.politico.com/story/2015/10/joe-biden-2016-thrush-off-message-215031
	 5 takeaways from Biden's not-quite-campaign

	In the words of a longtime ally, it became increasingly clear that the planning was more “fantasy football than football.”

	By Glenn Thrush 

	There was so, so much going for a Joe Biden presidential campaign — wasn’t there? His shaggy-dog “authenticity,” the tantalizing possibility of a Hillary Clinton face plant, the endless egging-on by a D.C. press corps that coveted a Joe-vs.-Hillary fight over a dreary, substance-y battle between Clinton and a Larry David doppelgänger.

	The solitary item in the “no” column: reality.

	Joe Biden was a bad presidential candidate in 1988 and 2008, and he didn’t seem to be brandishing many new skills (especially discipline or a measured tongue) in his more than four decades of public life.

	At 72, with his 46-year-old son, Beau (whom he viewed as the most likely president in the Biden family), buried less than six months ago, the vice president’s restless mind alighted on an unexpected path to a political future — until his gaze returned to reality and legacy. In the end, he opted to stop where he stood — as an uncommonly powerful and collaborative vice president.

	...It was never going to happen.

	...Biden, my sources in his orbit have repeatedly told me, believed his greatest legacy would have been Beau’s election to the presidency — not his own — and he cherished the idea that the shattered boy rescued from the car wreck that killed his wife and baby daughter would someday occupy the Oval Office. With that dream gone, he picked up the flag himself and began to believe the overly optimistic reports that his dedicated inner circle — especially the exhortations of his surviving son, Hunte,r and longtime adviser Mike Donilon — were feeding him.


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/07/clinton-putin-226153
	 Why Putin hates Hillary

	Behind the allegations of a Russian hack of the DNC is the Kremlin leader's fury at Clinton for challenging the fairness of Russian elections.

	By Michael Crowley and Julia Ioffe 

http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2016/10/seven-reasons-the-new-russian-hack-announcement-is-a-big-deal-214330
	 Seven Reasons the New Russian Hack Announcement Is a Big Deal
	It might turn out to be bigger than the Trump tape. A Moscow-watcher explains what's really going on.
	By Julia Ioffe 

	...This marks a new sophistication in Russia’s understanding of American politics. The Russians didn’t always know what the DNC was—or at least why it was worth hacking. The fact that it now does represents a massive leap forward for Russian intelligence.

	Just a few years ago, the Russians wouldn’t have known about the intricacies of American domestic politics.


Why they would do this is anyone's guess. One possibility is that they want to spread misinformation about Russia's activities so that they can discredit the idea of Russian meddling later. Another is that they want to politicize the issue, which would make it harder for many Americans to reason or learn about Russia's activities and motives. Politicizing important issues looks like a tactic for the Russians:


https://archive.org/stream/BezmenovLoveLetterToAmerica/YuriBezmenov-LoveLetterToAmerica_djvu.txt
	After several months I was formally recruited by the KGB as an informer, while still maintaining my position as a Novosti journalist. My work with the KGB entailed combining my journalistic duties with the collection of intelligence data, and the spreading of "disinformation" to foreign countries for the purposes of Soviet propaganda and subversion.

	...All the subverter has to do to remove the spiritual backbone of America is to help you to POLITICIZE, COMMERCIALIZE and 'ENTERTAINMENT-ALIZE' the dominant religions.

	...Politicizing religion is the most efficient method of demoralizing a target nation. Once a nation starts giving to Caesar what belongs to God, and getting God involved in such things as 'social justice' and partisan political squabbles, it predictably loses what religion calls mercy and the grace of God. To put it in 'atheistic' terms, a target country allows the subverter to use the area of moral values for dissemination and enforcement of amoral ideas and policies. The most powerful instrument of this process is an organization called World Council of Churches, infiltrated by the KGB to such extent, that it is hard to distinguish, these days, a priest from a spy. Being a public relations officer for Novosti, I accompanied many foreign members of the WCC during their visits to the USSR. Some of them struck me as individuals pathologically unable to say or hear truth. They were simply allergic to any facts or opinions which would 'undermine' their 'spiritual' affiliation with the Soviet manipulators.


http://www.catholicnewsagency.com/news/former-soviet-spy-we-created-liberation-theology-83634/
	Former Soviet spy: We created Liberation Theology

	...In general, could you say that the spreading of Liberation Theology had any kind of Soviet connection?

	Yes. I learned the fine points of the KGB involvement with Liberation Theology from Soviet General Aleksandr Sakharovsky, communist Romania's chief razvedka (foreign intelligence) adviser – and my de facto boss, until 1956, when he became head of the Soviet espionage service, the PGU1,  a position he held for an unprecedented record of 15 years.

	...Was the Theology of Liberation a movement somehow "created" by Sakharovsky's part of the KGB, or it was an existing movement that was exacerbated by the USSR?

	The movement was born in the KGB, and it had a KGB-invented name: Liberation Theology. During those years, the KGB had a penchant for “liberation” movements. The National Liberation Army of Columbia (FARC), created by the KGB with help from Fidel Castro; the “National Liberation Army of Bolivia, created by the KGB with help from “Che” Guevara; and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), created by the KGB with help from Yasser Arafat are just a few additional “liberation” movements born at the Lubyanka -- the headquarters of the KGB.

	The birth of Liberation Theology was the intent of a 1960 super-secret “Party-State Dezinformatsiya Program” approved by Aleksandr Shelepin, the chairman of the KGB, and by Politburo member Aleksey Kirichenko, who coordinated the Communist Party's international policies. This program demanded that the KGB take secret control of the World Council of Churches (WCC), based in Geneva, Switzerland, and use it as cover for converting Liberation Theology into a South American revolutionary tool. The WCC was the largest international ecumenical organization after the Vatican, representing some 550 million Christians of various denominations throughout 120 countries.

	The birth of a new religious movement is a historic event. How was this new religious movement launched?

	The KGB began by building an intermediate international religious organization called the Christian Peace Conference (CPC), which was headquartered in Prague. Its main task was to bring the KGB-created Liberation Theology into the real world.

	The new Christian Peace Conference was managed by the KGB and was subordinated to the venerable World Peace Council, another KGB creation, founded in 1949 and by then also headquartered in Prague.

	During my years at the top of the Soviet bloc intelligence community I managed the Romanian operations of the World Peace Council (WPC). It was as purely KGB as it gets. Most of the WPC’s employees were undercover Soviet bloc intelligence officers.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:Harry_Hopkins
	Talk:Harry Hopkins

	Someone has vandalized this page.

	"Such critiques of Roosevelt and Hopkins as the notorious book, Verona Secrets, paint Hopkins as a Russian spy. No such allegation has been substantiated or proven." http://www.u-s-history.com/pages/h1610.html. It's pretty sad really.

 	...What is sad is your reliance on stale history and offer of only opinion. Information is actually coming from the Soviet archives that Hopkins was in fact considered an "agent of influence" for the Soviets inside the U.S. Do you speak Russian?

	...Vasily Mitrokhin was a KGB archivist who defected from the Soviet Union with copies of KGB files. He claimed Harry Hopkins was a secret Russian agent.

	...Does the above writer know Russian? Obviously he is not concerned with the basic facts of history and has no evidence whatsover to back up his claims. No, the above is scurrilous demogoguery emanating historically from Hopkins' and FDR's political opponents among the America First crowd and others who were unenthusiastic about World War 2 and loathed the New Deal as "socialism". The Soviet Union was our ally in the biggest, most cataclysmic war in human history. In his capacity as FDR's chief foreign affairs advisor and emissary he worked to solidify and manage these alliances playing a role in facilitating military aid to these countries, not only Russia but...


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_Hopkins#Relations_with_the_Soviet_Union
	...Hopkins continued to be a target of Republican attacks even after his death. George Racey Jordan testified to the House Un-American Activities Committee in December 1949 that Hopkins passed nuclear secrets to the USSR. While Democrats dismissed Jordan’s testimony, Republicans championed it. ...Roll further notes that in 1963 the FBI concluded that Jordan's allegations could not be substantiated, adding that Jordan "either lied for publicity and profit or was delusional."


http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2001/jan/4/20010104-020500-7670r/
	Harry Hopkins, Soviet agent

	...But the liberals, dreading the charge that they had ignored the peril, counterattacked, turning Wisconsin Sen. Joseph McCarthy into an all-purpose villain who allegedly smeared innocent victims with groundless charges of communism or pro-communism, and gradually the tide turned. 


https://pastebin.com/r5PHGSnz


http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2000/07/31/gore-without-a-script
	Gore asked a group of his friends to set up a series of seminars for him, like the arms-control seminars with Leon Fuerth, only much more ambitious, with big-time thinkers, such as the economists Kenneth Arrow and Brian Arthur, flying to Washington to brief him. Up one level! By the end of it, Gore had a new, sweeping view of the world and its prospects. His main interest had noticeably shifted, from arms control to global warming, but the setup was familiar: mankind was in a morally dire situation of its own making, which could be solved through a combination of analytic mastery, spiritual guidance, and the use of technology in healthy ways instead of unhealthy ones.


https://www.livescience.com/22069-polarization-climate-science.html
	How Climate Science Became Politicized

	...Part of the problem is that climate change has moved out of the realm of research and into the political arena, Leiserowitz said. The climate-change views of the two political parties were not significantly different until the Kyoto Protocol negotiations of 1997, when policymakers began to look for solutions to global warming.

	This was in the midst of the polarizing Clinton administration, and for some, the association made global warming belief seem unsavory. Even today, many climate-change naysayers think of former vice president Al Gore when they hear the words "climate change."

	"They loathe Al Gore," Leiserowitz said. "Sometimes I joke that Al Gore could hold a press conference tomorrow to say that science has determined that the Earth is round and people out there would say, 'Well, no it isn't.'" 


https://www.infowars.com/leftist-pr-firm-pressuring-media-to-blame-climate-change-for-hurricane-joaquin/
	Leftist PR Firm Pressuring Media to Blame “Climate Change” for Hurricane Joaquin
	Liberals are exploiting a potential tragedy to promote their alarmist agenda


https://www.infowars.com/liberal-fascist-calls-for-global-warming-skeptics-to-be-arrested/
	Liberal Fascist Calls For Global Warming Skeptics to be Arrested


https://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Ainfowars.com+global+warming


https://pastebin.com/e4qCs1AT


https://www.cnas.org/publications/blog/5-questions-with-someone-interesting-charles-emmerson
	5 Questions with Someone Interesting: Charles Emmerson

	 CE: Well first of all, there’s certainly an increasing convergence in terms of the idea that climate change is the reality, and that a large part of it is anthropogenic, although there are still a number of Russian scientists – including at the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute in St. Petersburg – who argue that the anthropogenic contribution is generally overstated in the West. The argument put to me there was that what we’re now seeing in the Arctic – and there’s no denying that Arctic warming is real – is a blip, and it may actually be overshadowed by a natural cooling effect over time. This argument was put to me in Russia, but it’s not current elsewhere around the Arctic. So there’s still some divergence in scientists’ views, but not very much and it’s becoming smaller.

	But in terms of *effects*, it really depends on who you talk to.


https://www.newscientist.com/blogs/shortsharpscience/2009/12/since-over-1000-confidential-e.html
	Climategate: Russian secret service blamed for hack


http://faculty.wcas.northwestern.edu/~jnd260/pub/Bolsen%20Druckman%20Cook%20PBehavior%202013.pdf
	The Influence of Partisan Motivated Reasoning on Public Opinion

	Abstract  Political parties play a vital role in democracies by linking citizens to their representatives. Nonetheless, a longstanding concern is that partisan identification slants decision-making. Citizens may support (oppose) policies  that they would otherwise oppose (support) in the absence of an endorsement from a political party—this is due in large part to what is called partisan motivated reasoning where individuals interpret information through the lens of their party commitment. We explore partisan motivated reasoning in a survey experiment focusing on support for an energy law. We identify two politically relevant factors that condition partisan motivated reasoning: (1) an explicit inducement to form an ‘‘accurate’’ opinion, and (2) cross-partisan, but not consensus, bipartisan support for the law. We further provide evidence of how partisan motivated reasoning works psychologically and affects opinion strength. We conclude by discussing the implications of our results for understanding opinion formation and the overall quality of citizens’ opinions.


(compare to:

http://www.nbcnews.com/card/nbc-news-exit-poll-honesty-vs-temperament-n680296?cid=sm_tw
	Indeed, nearly six in 10 voters interviewed in NBC Exit Polls so far today say that Clinton is not honest and trustworthy. Slightly more than one-third say she is. 


https://archive.org/details/MSNBCW_20160808_100000_Morning_Joe/start/660/end/720
	It's weird Hillary Clinton wasnts that everything was hunky dory with the e-mails and they were cleared of wrongdoing and that's their spin and nobody believes it. Nobody in America believes it.

http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2016/09/06/russian-conspiracy-hillary-clinton-absurd-trump/
	Hillary Clinton’s Absurd, McCarthyist Russian Conspiracy Theory

http://www.breitbart.com/big-journalism/2016/09/12/clintons-russia-conspiracy-theory-salvage-election/
	Hillary Clinton’s campaign has been placing increasing emphasis on a bizarre conspiracy theory that claims Russia is hacking the U.S. election to ensure that Donald Trump wins.

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/sean-hannity-russian-hacking-liberal-media-fake-news_us_584fdd10e4b0e05aded5b6c1
	Sean Hannity Says Russian Hacking Probe Is ‘Liberal Media Fake News Story’

http://www.politico.com/story/2016/12/gop-russia-putin-support-232714
	More Republicans viewing Putin favorably

	GOP sympathies for Putin and his homeland are rising)


A lot of Russian propaganda goes towards increasing animosity between the left and right and politicizing issues of interest to them. By politicizing the issue of their meddling, Russia can make it harder for politically-inclined Americans to reason about their activities (another benefit: cover for spies, who can claim to be motivated by the politics of the day rather than loyalty to a foreign power). Tying the warnings of Russian meddling to the words of Clinton, a polarizing figure, would help with this (to get a sense of one of the ways Clinton inadvertently helped Putin, read this http://www.politico.com/story/2016/07/trump-putin-no-relationship-226282 and imagine Trump was asking Russia to attack Biden instead. Clinton helped Russia manipulate Republicans with the idea that "the enemy of my enemy is my friend.")

If they intended this, it looks like it worked: you can see more than a few politicians and pundits on the right arguing that Russian interference is ineffective and overstated (or doesn't exist), and plenty on the left jumping on every meeting with a Russian official, kind word towards Trump, or dubious Russia-related report as evidence of treachery:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	STEWART: That's exactly right and are both of your agencies capable of handling accusations agree with me on that. I'd like to shift quickly if I could to the integrity of the report which the previous DNI when he determined along with your acquiescence, I might add, both of you, that Russia developed a clear preference for Mr. Trump and this is a huge deal. I mean, think about this story the American people have been told and some believe that our president was elected maybe because of the influence of a foreign government.

	And I love you guys, you know that, and I defend you and we respect what you do but I do need to make this point and that is the intelligence community is not perfect, is it?

	COMEY: Not perfect?

	STEWART: Yes.

	COMEY: Certainly not.

	STEWART: Certainly not. We...

	...STEWART: And as has been indicated here, and look again, that's not a criticism, it's just the human endeavor. We sometimes make mistakes as do agencies sometimes make mistakes and all of us can think of examples of that including meaningful mistakes, by the way. Mistakes that had clear implications for our policy. And as has been indicated here as well, there's a difference in the level of confidence.


http://www.spokesman.com/blogs/boise/2016/dec/08/risch-adamant-russia-didnt-affect-outcome-us-election-despite-hacking/
	Risch adamant that Russia didn’t affect outcome of U.S. election, despite hacking

	Idaho Sen. Jim Risch, a member of the Senate foreign relations and intelligence committees, was adamant on CNN yesterday that he doesn’t believe Russia successfully interfered in the U.S. election in November. “It is a fact that no one can deny that the Russians attempt to influence elections all over the world,” Risch told CNN’s Wolf Blitzer. “No one in the intelligence community has offered anything, that the Russians, whatever they did, whether it was hacking or whether it was releasing things, had any effect.”

	He added: “I don’t think they interfered. I think they attempted to interfere.”


http://www.newsmax.com/Politics/rand-paul-democrats-donald-trump-campaign/2017/05/10/id/789318/
	Rand Paul: Trump Collusion With Russia 'Huge Myth' by Democrats


http://www.msnbc.com/rachel-maddow-show/if-only-john-mccains-actions-matched-john-mccains-rhetoric
 	By Steve Benen

	If only John McCain’s actions matched John McCain’s rhetoric

	Sure, the GOP senator has been willing to criticize Trump – at times, in surprisingly forceful terms – which is more than can be said for many of his congressional Republican colleagues, nearly all of whom remain silent, despite genuine concerns. But McCain doesn’t just give speeches and sit down for interviews; he’s also a sitting senator who casts votes.

	And in the Senate, so far this year, McCain is voting with Trump’s position 94% of the time. As a factual matter, the senator is a Maverick in Name Only.

	...And yet, much of the political world seems inclined to credit McCain for resisting Trump’s more outlandish excesses, even though McCain isn’t following through when it counts. Worse, there are Democrats trying to get attention for the fact that they’re actually resisting Trump both rhetorically and legislatively.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/wp/2017/06/09/the-latest-republican-defense-of-trump-is-built-on-a-massive-lie/
	The latest Republican defense of Trump is built on a massive lie
	By Greg Sargent

	Now that James B. Comey’s testimony to Congress has painted a picture of President Trump’s contempt for the rule of law that’s far more forceful and persuasive in its dramatic details than Republicans ever bargained for, the new and emerging GOP defense is that Trump is a political and procedural naif. He merely needs to learn the rules. This line of obfuscation requires pretending that many of the events of the past six months never happened.

	But this spin from Republicans has a significance that runs deeper than merely revealing the absurd lengths to which they’ll go to protect Trump from political and legal harm. More urgently, their new line unwittingly reveals the degree to which Trump’s abuses of power and assault on our democracy have depended all along upon their tacit and willful complicity — and, perhaps worse, it leaves little doubt that this enabling will continue, with unforeseen consequences.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	CASTRO: ...My focus today is to explore how many claims within Steele's dossier are looking more and more likely, as though they are accurate.

	...Are you investigating the claims made in the dossier?

	...The allegations it raises about President Trump's campaign aids connections to Russians, when overlaid with known established facts and timelines from the 2016 campaign are very revealing.

	...OK. Well, the dossier definitely seems right on these points.

	...A July 19, 2016 entry for example asserts that Russians were receiving intel from Trump's team on Russian oligarch

	...A July 30 entry likewise states that a source close to the Trump campaign confirms a regular exchange with the Kremlin

	...So, the dossier states in an entry dated August 10, 2016, that a quote "Kremlin official involved in U.S. relations" suggested that Moscow might offer assistance

	...Among the U.S. actors, this Kremlin official mentions a Carter Page and Michael Flynn, whom my colleagues have already discussed at length and which the dossier describes as

	...CASTRO: In an October 18, 2016, entry, the dossier states that, during Page's visit to Moscow, he met with Igor Senchin, offering, quote,"Page and Trump's associate, the brokerage of up to 19 percent stake in Rosneft," which Page conferring (ph) that, quote, "If Trump were elected U.S. President, sanctions on Russia would be lifted."

	And although fortunately the White House hasn't been so naive as to (inaudible) unilaterally lift sanctions on Russia, it was widely reported that on January 27th of this year, Rosneft sold a 19.5 percent stake in Rosneft in what Reuters calls, quote,"one of its biggest privatizations since the 1990s." Furthermore, Reuters reported that, quote, "Public records show the ownership structure of the -- of the stake ultimately includes a Cayman Islands company whose beneficial owners cannot be traced." What a coincidence.

	Is this the subject of your investigation? One of the subjects of your investigation?

	COMEY: Same answer.

	CASTRO: OK.

	COMEY: Meaning -- meaning I'm not going to comment.

	CASTRO: I understand.

	...CASTRO: OK. An entry from July 19, 2016, in the dossier states that a Trump associate knew that the Kremlin was


The dossier itself seems like a handy tool for getting the left and right to fight about Russia's activities and intentions. It reads like a Democrat partisan's dream: According to the dossier, Trump is not just a fan of Putin but a criminal collaborator, Trump is an utter pervert and the evidence is out there just waiting to be discovered, Putin dreads the Democrat's stalwart resistance, and his true motivation is fear and loathing of their champion, Hillary Clinton (at least for the partisans that support Clinton; it looks like she and Sanders have helped divide the Democratic party).

The problem is just about everything in the dossier is unverified or unverifiable, and so the people who believe it end up being the people who want to believe it.

The reality, is as far as I can tell: Trump could easily have been kept in the dark enough by his advisors to have avoided breaking the law (but maybe not enough to avoid impeachment), there is no evidence that the KGB taped Trump with prostitutes, a lot of the left (and right) helped politicize Russian interference, and Clinton was mostly just useful for installing Trump, politicizing Russian interference, and dividing the American electorate.

The dossier is also misleading in subtle but important ways. The dossier would have you believe that Russia's intelligence network aiding Trump (or "being used against CLINTON") was entirely made up of Trump himself and recruits from Russian emigres:


https://archive.org/stream/TrumpIntelligenceAllegations_201701/Trump-Intelligence-Allegations_djvu.txt
	...In terms of the FSB’s recruitment of capable cyber operatives to carry out its, ideally deniable, offensive cyber operations, a Russian IT specialist with direct knowledge reported in June 2016 that this was often done using coercion and blackmail. In terms of ‘foreign’ agents, the FSB was approaching US citizens of Russian (Jewish) origin on business trips to Russia.

	...Agreed exchange of information established in both directions. TRUMP's team using moles within DNC and hackers in the US as well as outside in Russia. PUTIN motivated by fear and hatred of Hillary CLINTON. Russians receiving intel from TRUMP’s team on Russian oligarchs and their families in US 

	Mechanism for transmitting this intelligence involves “pension" disbursements to Russian emigres living in US as cover, using consular officials in New York, DC and Miami 

	...In the wider context of TRUMP campaign/Kremlin co-operation, Source E claimed that the intelligence network being used against CLINTON comprised three elements. Firstly there were agents/facilitators within the Democratic Party structure itself; secondly Russian emigre and associated offensive cyber operators based in the US; and thirdly; state-sponsored cyber operatives working in Russia.

	...Source E claimed that Russian diplomatic staff in key cities such as New York, Washington DC and Miami were using the emigre ‘pension’ distribution system as cover. The operation therefore depended on key people in the US Russian emigre community for its success.


But deep cover spies like the SVR's illegals (https://pastebin.com/r5PHGSnz) aren't exactly what you'd call "Russian emigres," especially the ones born in the U.S. And the dossier makes it sound like the whole thing was a hacking operation (how many thousands of propagandists would Russia have to employ to write all of this: http://www.propornot.com/p/home.html ?). Anyone who based their investigation on the dossier would look for Russian agents among ethnic Russians (and Jews, apparently) who have travelled to Russia, missing agents like Vicky Pelaez (http://www.cnn.com/2010/CRIME/06/29/russian.spies.pelaez.profile/ and  https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=es&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=https%3A%2F%2Fmundo.sputniknews.com%2Ffirmas%2F201603171057745687-trump-candidato-republicanos), who emigrated from Peru. The dossier draws attention away from the fairly obvious observation that the same kind of deep cover spies arrested in 2010, who were "getting close to U.S. policymaking circles," could be used by Russia to aide Trump's campaign or to further other goals.

As for what Russia's methods and goals actually are, that's not always easy to know. The dossier says Russia aims to stop Clinton, sew division within the West, distract from Russian intervention in Ukraine, hide their meddling and collusion with Trump's team, and lift sanctions, and that the Kremlin's methods comprise hackers targeting Clinton (the word "spy" or "illegal" doesn't appear in the text) and blackmail over Trump, with the whole thing coordinated by secret meetings between Trump associates and officials based in Russia. But Russia's goals and methods are hard to figure out by design:


http://georgianreview.ge/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/bob-pdf.pdf
	Other tools, such as the uses of agents of influence, or disinformation, or maskirovka, deception to mask intent, are either Soviet or even Tsarist in their roots. The Swedish Defence Research Agency concluded that the only novelty about the Crimean annexation was that the Russians had executed it 
successfully. But this form of warfare, however one wants to call it, is ‘new’ in a few critical ways. First, most Western experts and governments did not see it coming (despite being signposted for several years) and did not know how to react when it happened. 


http://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-31020283
	 Russia's annexation of Crimea last year caught almost everyone off guard. The Russian military disguised its actions, and denied them - but those "little green men" who popped up in the Black Sea peninsula were a textbook case of the Russian practice of military deception - or maskirovka.

	At a cadet school in the southern suburbs of Moscow, Maj Gen Alexander Vladimirov heaves two enormous red volumes off his bookcase and slams them down on the table. "My Theory and Science of Warfare," he says, beaming. "It's three times longer than Leo Tolstoy's War and Peace!"

	Vladimirov, vice-president of Russia's Collegium of Military Experts, is an authority on maskirovka - the hallmark of Russian warfare and a word which translates as "something masked".
a 
	"As soon as man was born, he began to fight," he says. "When he began hunting, he had to paint himself different colours to avoid being eaten by a tiger. From that point on maskirovka was a part of his life. All human history can be portrayed as the history of deception." 

	Vladimirov quotes liberally from the Roman general Frontinus and the ancient Chinese philosopher Sun Tzu who described war as an eternal path of cunning.

	But it's Russia, he tells me, with unmistakable pride, that has over the centuries really honed these techniques to perfection.

	...Five weeks later, once the annexation had been rubber-stamped by the Parliament in Moscow, Putin admitted Russian troops had been deployed in Crimea after all. But the lie had served its purpose. Maskirovka is used to wrong-foot your enemies, to keep them guessing.

	..."I think that there is an alignment between what probably started out as military doctrine, but now is much more a part of state policy and there's an alignment between the strategic down to the tactical level in terms of the mindset of maskirovka." 


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_military_deception
	The 1978 Soviet Military Encyclopedia defines deception similarly, placing additional stress on strategic levels, and explicitly including political, economic and diplomatic measures besides the military ones. It largely repeats the 1944 Encyclopedia's concept, but adds that

	Strategic maskirovka is carried out at national and theater levels to mislead the enemy as to political and military capabilities, intentions and timing of actions. In these spheres, as war is but an extension of politics, it includes political, economic and diplomatic measures as well as military.


The dossier has all the hallmarks of "maskirovka." It gives the impression of a sloppy, thrown-together hacking operation carried out by whoever the FSB was able to recruit on Russian soil. But Russia's recruitment and influence network is the largest and the best in the world:


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP91-00901R000600210056-1.pdf
	Soviets embark on new path of anti-American

	14 April 1981

	Last year Central Intelligence Agency Deputy Director for Operations John McMahon testified before Congress in closed committee session that the Soviets were spending from $3 billion to $4 billion a year on anti-U.S. covert action and propaganda.

	"The Soviets have established a worldwide network of agents, organizations, and technical facilities" to implement these programs, McMahon told the House Intelligence Committee.

	That network is second to none in comparison to the major world powers in its size and effectiveness."

	According to McMahon and other sources, such covert "active measures," as distinguished from the normal intelligence collection and counterintelligence functions of the KGB, have included:

	--Written and oral "disinformation." In may 1978, Soviet Ambassador to Zambia Solodovnikov warned Zambian President Kuanda falsely that Soviet intelligence had learned British and American intelligence services were plotting to overthrow him. Kuanda was advised against making a trip to Britain and the U.S., since his departure was to precipitate the coup.

	Solodovnikov said falsely that the U.S. and Britain had used a similar plan to overthrow Nkrumah of Ghana.

	--Forgeries and false rumors. A bogus U.S. Army field manual was cited by the Soviets as proof that the CIA was secretly manipulating the terrorist Red Brigades who murdered Italian leader Aldo Moro.

	This happened after it was reported that the REd Brigades had received training in Czechoslovakia and had ties with the Soviet Union.

	"Whenever the KGB is caught red-handed in an outrageous action that threatens the Soviet Union with serious embarrassment," wrote Reader's Digest Senior Editor John Barron in his book KGB: the Secret work of Soviet Secret Agents, "it hurriedly commences disinformation operations to divert world attention from the event. Frequently the KGB simply accuses others of doing precisely what it has been shown to have done."

	The forged field manual used in the Moro case also was used by the Soviets to try to prove that U.S. military and intelligence liaisons abroad are used as cover to penetrate and manipulate friendly foreign governments.

	--"Gray" or unattributed propaganda. When the Soviets want to create an aura of authenticity around an otherwise implausible position, they use a system of press placements through non-Soviet journalists recruited to make sure Soviet articles surface in the local foreign press.


And it doesn't look like that's changed. All those spies aren't going to just pack up and leave after the fall of the Berlin wall:


http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/03/cia-art-spying-espionage-spies-military-terrorism-214875
	But here’s the unfortunate irony of that transformation: Our Cold War adversaries hadn’t actually gone away. While American attention was turned elsewhere, Russia had quietly continued applying its formidable knowledge of traditional spy tradecraft.
Spy_spots_final-01-redder.jpg

	Using old propaganda techniques, and its usual modus operandi of dangling potentially compromising material on subjects of interest, Russia has spent the past several years slowly rebuilding its great empire and quietly undermining the foundations of Western democracy.

	...It is clear now that, while we were fighting the war on terror, Russia was not twiddling its thumbs. Its security services are good—frighteningly good—and extremely patient. 


https://www.fbi.gov/file-repository/higher-education-national-security.pdf
	This white paper was prepared by the FBI's Counterintelligence Strategic Partnership Unit to provide awareness to administrators, senior researchers, export control offices, and technology transfer offices at higher education institutions about how foreign intelligence services and non-state actors use US colleges and universities to further their intelligence and operational needs.

	...In 2009, Russia sent the following instructions to one of its spies, Lidiya Gurveva (using the name Cynthia Murphy), while she was pursuing an MBA degree at Columbia Business School, Columbia University:

	[S]trengthen...ties w. classmates on daily basis incl. professors who can help in job search and who will have (or already have) access to secret info... [r]eport to C[enter] on their detailed personal data and character traits w. preliminary conclusions about their potential (vulnerability) to be recruited by Service.

	They also directed her to “ ‘dig up’ personal data of those students who apply (or are hired already) for a job at CIA.” Guryeva was arrested in June 2010 for acting as an agent of a foreign power and was deported back to Russia.

	This example demonstrates a foreign intelligence service searching for students who may soon have access to targeted information. Intelligence services also collect information on the programs, officers, professors, and demographics of US universities. After studying the information and, if they find a person to target, they will study his/her motivations, weaknesses, politics, and ambitions. Familiarizing themselves with a professor’s work will help them determine a pretext for contacting the professor and how best to influence or recruit the professor.


Most (or all http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/03/how-the-explosive-russian-dossier-was-compiled-christopher-steele) of Steele's sources are Russians. But an intelligence source doesn't always have to tell the truth--even the CIA gets fooled:


http://freebeacon.com/national-security/cia-fooled-by-massive-cold-war-double-agent-failure/
	The CIA was fooled by scores of double agents pretending to be working for the agency but secretly loyal to communist spy agencies during the Cold War and beyond, according to a former CIA analyst, operations officer, and historian.

	The large-scale deception included nearly 100 fake CIA recruits in East Germany, Cuba, as well as the Soviet Union (and later Russia) who supplied false intelligence that was passed on to senior U.S. policymakers for decades.

	"During the Cold War, the Central Intelligence Agency bucked the law of averages by recruiting double agents on an industrial scale; it was hoodwinked not a few but many times," writes Benjamin B. Fischer, CIA’s former chief historian.

	"The result was a massive but largely ignored intelligence failure," he stated in a journal article published last week.

	The failure to recognize the double agents and their disinformation designed to influence U.S. policies "wreaked havoc" on the agency, Fischer wrote in the International Journal of Intelligence and Counterintelligence.

	Fischer stated that the failure to prevent the double agent deception was dismissed by the CIA as insignificant, and that congressional oversight committees also did not press the agency to reform its vetting processes.


And Steele didn't mention how he vetted his sources--he just compiled what they said and sent it to his clients. He basically acted as a conduit from his sources to his clients, and now the world. But we know some of his sources were either lying or very misinformed, making the document, essentially, a well-crafted forgery:


https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/jan/12/parliaments-intelligence-watchdog-to-scrutinise-trump-dossier
	Paddy Ashdown, the Lib Dem peer and former diplomat, said he thought the intelligence agencies would now be trying to get to the bottom of the veracity of the allegations but the dossier showed the hallmarks of the FSB [the modern-day KGB] planting false or heavily embellished information.

	“In this hall of mirrors, anybody can indulge their wildest fantasy theory but you have to ask yourself who benefits. Clearly the CIA doesn’t. Clearly Mr Trump doesn’t. But every aspect benefits Russia,” he said.

	“It absolutely leaves Britain in a difficult position and Moscow will make the most of that. But it doesn’t mean to say we can do anything about it.”


Forging documents to confuse about their operations and intent wouldn't be new to Russian intelligence:


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP84B00049R000902220014-7.pdf
	The Soviet Forgery War

	It sounds like a John Le Carre spy thriller. Soviet agents forge some official-looking U.S. documents and try to stir up anti-American sentiment in Europe. There are letters from President Regan, former secretary of State Haig and other high-ranking officials. There are suggestions about a military coup in Greece to overthrow Socialist Premier Papandreou, a secret agreement for a U.S. intelligence base in Sweden, a letter to King Juan Carlos of Spain about ways of countering opposition to joining NATO and efforts to neutralize the anti-nuclear movement in Europe.

	Although it may sound like spy fiction, it's all too real. These are actual forgeries by the Soviet Union, which were uncovered by U.S. and allied intelligence and released to the press last week by the administration. The forgeries are only the latest in a long line of Soviet propaganda and covert action measures against the U.S.

	...The Soviet Union's propaganda war has manifold aims: to influence world public opinion against U.S. policies; to portray the U.S. as an aggressive and "imperialist" power; to discredit those foreign governments and officials who cooperate with the U.S.; to obfuscate the true nature of Soviet actions and intentions, and to create a favorable environment for the execution of Soviet foreign and military policies.


Neither would leaking them to the press:


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP90-00965R000706950001-7.pdf
	Forgery is a favorite Soviet weapon in the Cold War but has never been an important part of the U.S. disinformation arsenal.

	...Anonymous mailings. The KGB usually sends its "leaks" to the news media in plain brown wrappers with no return address, making it difficult to verify the document's authenticity. That often works with gullible or anti-American publications.

	Realizing that the communist press has little credibility, the KGB tries to plant its forgeries in noncommunist publications. Even a tiny item will do: it can then be picked up and amplified as "a well-known fact" by the pro-Soviet press. After sufficient repetition, it is broadcast by the Soviet propaganda network, usually with the standard introduction, "As the whole world knows..."


And some of their forgeries have been very good:


http://iancpilarczyk.com/10-historical-documents-proven-to-be-fake/
	During World War II, the Tanaka Memorial was portrayed by the United States as a Japanese analog to Hitler’s Mein Kampf. Even though the authenticity of the document has been widely discredited by modern scholars, the Tanaka Memorial was generally considered to be authentic in the 1930s-1940s, largely because Japan’s actions corresponded so closely to plans outlined in the document: the 1931 Mukden Incident, the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1937, The Battles of Khalkhin Gol in 1939, the Japanese invasion of French Indochina in 1940, and the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 and the subsequent war in the Pacific all seemed to provide corroborating evidence of its authenticity. In the modern era, many scholars believe the document to be a Soviet forgery meant to encourage war between China and Japan, while at the same time advancing Soviet interests.


https://books.google.com/books/about/The_Sword_and_the_Shield.html?id=9TWUAQ7Xof8C
	On the publication of the Tanaka memorandum, see Klehr, Haynes and Firsov, The Secret World of American Communism, pp. 52-3. The published version of the memorandum has been regarded by some scholars, unaware of the OGPU’s success at this period in intercepting Japanese communications in Harbin and Seoul, as a forgery fabricated by the OGPU. The KGB record of its interception, however, describes it as genuine. I t is possible, though Mitrokhin discovered no evidence of this, that the published version was doctored to improve its propaganda value.


Compare some of the events outlined in the Tanaka Memorial (like the Mukden incident) to the excerpts here: https://pastebin.com/e4qCs1AT The takeaway is: if Russian intelligence wants a forgery to appear credible, they can try to make its claims come true.

Beyond confusing about their methods and goals, Russian intelligence likes to use forgeries to sew doubt and chaos:


http://www.fpri.org/article/2016/09/distinguishing-true-false-fakes-forgeries-russias-information-war-ukraine/
	A highly effective disruption method is to use genuine text or documents to mask false text or documents. The objective of interspersing false text or documents within genuine text or document batches is to make the adulterated appear credible.

		[T]he USSR is not engaged constantly in an active, positive deception program designed totally to mislead us as to its intentions and objectives. To do so would be counterproductive to its own interests, and moreover would undermine the effectiveness of a positive deception program when it would be important that we accept it. A prerequisite for effective deception is to establish some degree of credibility.[28] [Emphasis added]

	Another variation is to insert ostensibly false text to adulterate—and so intentionally discredit—an otherwise genuine document (or likewise, an ostensibly false document into a batch of genuine documents). Such actions are covert rather than clandestine since a clandestine action, if properly conducted, remains totally concealed, which would in this instance be self-defeating.

	False information—especially in the form of fraudulent “official” documents and papers—is a potent disruptor. Just as the belief that some currency may be counterfeit undercuts faith in all currency, so, too, the belief that some documents (or some parts of some documents) are forgeries intentionally and effectively corrodes the credibility of all similar documents. This effect can be more debilitating when the target is intelligence professionals rather than lay readers.

		Alertness to deception presumably prompts a more careful and systematic review of the evidence. But anticipation of deception also leads the analyst to be more skeptical of all of the evidence, and to the extent that evidence is deemed unreliable, the analyst’s preconceptions must play a greater role in determining which evidence to believe. This leads to a paradox: The more alert we are to deception, the more likely we are to be deceived.[29]

	Disruption entails a greater degree of freedom in counterintelligence operations than mere deception. Ostensible forgeries interspersed within a larger document batch are a well-honed technique. Circulating fake and fraudulent documents, or causing false information to be published in legitimate outlets, is useful to provoke others to come forward to challenge the information or to amplify it.


Which is exactly what the dossier did:


http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2017/mar/21/discredited-dossier-detailing-trump-russian-collus/
	Desperate Dems cling to discredited spy dossier to link Trump to Russians 

	By Rowan Scarborough - The Washington Times - Tuesday, March 21, 2017

	In trying to bolster a discredited dossier by a former British spy, Rep. Adam B. Schiff on Monday recounted the document’s telling of a supposed meeting between an informal Donald Trump adviser and a Russian oligarch.

	...Mr. Schiff’s praise of former MI6 agent Mr. Steele was a theme among Democrats on Monday as they questioned FBI Director James B. Comey and Navy Adm. Michael Rogers, director of the National Security Agency.

	Democrats are attempting to prove collusion between the Trump campaign and Russian intelligence, which hacked into Democrat Party emails.

	At this point, Mr. Steele’s unverified dossier is their best public evidence. They have embraced Mr. Steele’s research, which makes the case for collusion even though it has been discredited by the press, its subjects and former intelligence officials.


http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/443752/trump-kompromat-story-its-all-disturbing
	The Trump ‘Kompromat’ Story Is Disturbing — Every Bit of It

	by David French January 11, 2017 12:51 AM

	...I won’t dignify the report with a link, but some of the rumors detail alleged personal misconduct. Others detail disturbing claims of coordination between Russian intelligence and Trump campaign officials — claims that can be investigated rather easily. In fact, news organizations were investigating those claims even as Buzzfeed vomited out the entire report.

	The American people need to know what Russia is doing, what our president-elect or his team have done (if anything), and whether members of our own government are breaking the law to try to delegitimize Trump.


http://www.nationalreview.com/article/443816/donald-trump-dossier-intelligence-reports-question-russia-ties
	Is the Intelligence Community Trying to Undermine Trump?

	by Michael Barone January 13, 2017 12:00 AM @michaelbarone

	These unverified allegations are not useful for much except delegitimizing the president-elect.

	One must add that it’s not clear that “intelligence agencies” let out the information. But if they did, it was in line with the report they delivered to President Barack Obama last week claiming with high degrees of confidence that Russian president Vladimir Putin directed the hacking and release of e-mails from the Democratic National Committee and John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman.

	...My ability to read the minds of leaders of the intelligence community is weaker than theirs to read Putin’s, and I lack knowledge of just how the 35-page dodgy dossier found its way into the computerized hands of BuzzFeed. But what we’re seeing looks an awful lot like an attempt by intelligence officials, probably including presidential employees, to delegitimize the president-elect and his administration. It’s in line with the warnings to Trump by Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer not to tangle with the intelligence community.


http://www.weeklystandard.com/the-sordid-history-of-the-firm-behind-the-trump-russia-dossier/article/2006254
	The Sordid History of the Firm Behind the Trump-Russia Dossier
	
	...What's interesting about this revelation is that Fusion GPS has an institutional reputation for doing shoddy and underhanded political work, and nearly all of it has been at the behest of Democrats looking to attack Republicans. 


http://insider.foxnews.com/2017/01/25/tucker-carlson-grills-buzzfeed-editor-ben-smith-unverified-donald-trump-russia-dossier
	Tucker Grills BuzzFeed Editor Who Published Trump-Russia Dossier 

	...He told Tucker that he wanted to give readers a chance to see the contents of the dossier - which had been presented to high-level government officials - and decide for themselves.

	Tucker said that journalists see unverified, unsubstantiated reports all the time, and argued that Smith was politically motivated to publicly release this particular one.

	"Clearly, BuzzFeed News has a pretty open political agenda masquerading as journalism," Tucker said. "I think you are hiding behind journalistic standards, when, in fact, they're political imperatives."


https://www.buzzfeed.com/ryanhatesthis/alt-right-trolls-are-trying-to-trick-people-into-thinking-tr
	 Alt-Right Trolls Are Trying To Trick People Into Thinking Trump Dossier Was A 4chan Prank

	Trump supporters are spreading misinformation about a dossier that was released by BuzzFeed News Tuesday full of unverified allegations against President-elect Donald Trump. 

	...It claims that a dossier full of unverified allegations that Russia has compromising information on President-elect Donald Trump, released Tuesday night by BuzzFeed News, was actually a hoax perpetrated by 4chan.

	As reported by BuzzFeed News, the dossier's source is understood to be a former British intelligence agent whose past work was described by CNN as credible and the New York Times as "a competent and reliable operative with extensive experience in Russia." 

	 ...Wilson told BuzzFeed News that he doesn't believe it's a coincidence that Trump supporters are crediting 4chan.

	"The eagerness of them grabbing on to this 4chan thing shows you that there's some nervousness," he said. "They don't want him to be the guy who was pushed over the finish line by these forces that are overt enemies of our country."

	Comments from Reddit and 4chan seem to back up the idea that Trump supporters are organizing misinformation campaigns.


http://www.msnbc.com/rachel-maddow/watch/new-gop-defense-tactic-targets-trump-russia-dossier-936009795668
	New GOP defense tactic targets Trump Russia dossier

	Rachel Maddow points out how the Republican Party has switched to full push-back mode on the Trump Russia dossier and the overall investigation into ties between the Donald Trump campaign and Russian interference


http://www.palmerreport.com/opinion/pee-pee-tape-confirmed-fbi-used-trump-russia-dossier-to-get-fisa-warrant-on-carter-page/2351/
	 Pee Pee Tape confirmed? FBI used Trump-Russia dossier to get FISA warrant on Carter Page

	...When former MI6 agent Christopher Steele’s now infamous “Trump-Russia dossier” first leaked to the public in January of this year, much of the media treated it with great skepticism. They dismissed it as “unsubstantiated” every time they mentioned it, even as they painted far other less substantiated rumors as legitimate. Perhaps that’s because they wanted to distance themselves from one of the core claims of the dossier, now commonly referred to as the Pee Pee Tape. But the whole parameters just changed.


https://www.mediamatters.org/research/2017/04/19/pro-trump-websites-denial-after-reports-confirm-parts-trump-russia-dossier-were-corroborated/216098
	Pro-Trump Websites In Denial After Reports Confirm Parts Of Trump Russia Dossier Were Corroborated

	Fringe Outlets And Fake News Purveyors Attack FISA Court Decision By Attempting To Discredit Dossier Used As Evidence


http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2017/01/13/donald-trump-brands-christopher-steele-failed-spy-conspired/
	President-elect Donald Trump has lashed out at the former MI6 operative who prepared a dossier claiming Russia had explosive intelligence on him as a “failed spy” as Theresa May distanced the British government from the former agent.

	Mr Trump said Chris Steele, who spent two decades with the secret service, collaborated with his political rivals to concoct “phony allegations”. He dismissed the alleged conspirators as “sleazebag political operatives”, noting that Russia has denied collecting compromising information about him.

	Mr Steele’s status as a former UK spy threatened to cause a diplomatic row, with the Russian embassy in London suggesting he was still working on behalf of the British government to damage both Mr Trump and the Kremlin.

	The Prime Minister said in a press conference on Friday that the government had nothing to do with the so-called “dirty dossier”.

	“From everything you will have seen it is absolutely clear that the individual who produced this dossier has not worked for the UK government for years,” she said.

	...Mr Steele told him he had been trusted by the FBI because, “my track record as a professional is second to none”.


https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/jan/12/intelligence-sources-vouch-credibility-donald-trump-russia-dossier-author
	Donald Trump dossier: intelligence sources vouch for author's credibility 

	Ex-MI6 officer Christopher Steele, named as writer of Donald Trump memo, is ‘highly regarded professional’

	Nick Hopkins and Luke Harding

	On Thursday night, as the former spy was in hiding, having fled his home in the south-east of England, former colleagues rallied to defend him. One described him as “very credible” – a sober, cautious and meticulous professional with a formidable record.

	The former Foreign Office official, who has known Steele for 25 years and considers him a friend, said: “The idea his work is fake or a cowboy operation is false – completely untrue. Chris is an experienced and highly regarded professional. He’s not the sort of person who will simply pass on gossip.”

	The official added: “If he puts something in a report, he believes there’s sufficient credibility in it for it to be worth considering. Chris is a very straight guy. He could not have survived in the job he was in if he had been prone to flights of fancy or doing things in an ill-considered way.”

	That is the way the CIA and the FBI, not to mention the British government, regarded him, too. It’s not hard to see why. 


https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/jan/12/parliaments-intelligence-watchdog-to-scrutinise-trump-dossier
	Pressure is only likely to increase on the government from all sides to explain whether it had any knowledge of the dossier as it was being prepared by the former MI6 officer, who has been named as Christopher Steele.

	...“It absolutely leaves Britain in a difficult position and Moscow will make the most of that.


https://www.dni.gov/index.php/newsroom/press-releases/item/1736-dni-clapper-statement-on-conversation-with-president-elect-trump
	We also discussed the private security company document, which was widely circulated in recent months among the media, members of Congress and Congressional staff even before the IC became aware of it. I emphasized that this document is not a U.S. Intelligence Community product and that I do not believe the leaks came from within the IC. 


http://www.nationalreview.com/article/443816/donald-trump-dossier-intelligence-reports-question-russia-ties
	“Fake news,” Trump charged at the news conference, turning back on his critics a meme they have been using to suggest that voters were gulled into voting for him. “I think it was disgraceful, disgraceful that the intelligence agencies allowed any information that turned out to be so false and fake out.”


http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/01/13/trump-sticks-knife-into-dossier-story-wont-let-intel-community-off-hook.html
	His “failed spy” slam refers to former British spy Christopher David Steele, who reportedly helped compile the dossier. Trump turned fire on the original sources of the material after slamming the media – namely CNN and BuzzFeed, the latter of which published the dossier itself – for reporting on the claims earlier this week.

	But he also has continued to question the intelligence community’s role in the sordid allegations going public, reviving his charge Friday that they “probably” released it.


http://www.foxnews.com/us/2017/03/28/fbi-scrutinized-by-congress-over-probe-into-alleged-russia-trump-link.html

	The Senate Judiciary Committee, headed by Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, is investigating whether the FBI wrongly included political opposition research from Trump’s opponents in its probe, and then paid the author of that controversial report, a former British spy, to work for the FBI on its investigation. The committee’s probe began March 6 with the letter Grassley sent the FBI and was furthered Monday with requests for information from the company that did the opposition research.

	“When political opposition research becomes the basis for law enforcement or intelligence efforts, it raises substantial questions about the independence of law enforcement and intelligence from politics,” Grassley said Monday.

	The House Intelligence Committee, headed by Rep. Devin Nunes, R- Calif., is looking into how classified documents containing foreign surveillance transcripts with references to Trump’s transition team were illegally disclosed to the media. The committee’s probe began Jan. 25.

	...Most concerning, Grassley said, is that “Fusion GPS and Steele reportedly shared the dossier with the FBI, which then offered to pay Steele to continue his political opposition research on Trump.”

	Grassley wants to determine “the extent to which the FBI has relied on the political dossier in its investigation.” The senator also has requested documentation from Fusion GPS as to who hired and paid them, when Steele was hired, how the FBI got involved and whether Fusion GPS was aware of the FBI paying Steele. 


(Note: Grassley is usually full of shit, and the FBI could have wanted to pay the guy to cover for spying on him or just to see what he and his sources would do. That said:)


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	GRAHAM: Do you agree with me that a fusion was involved in preparing the dossier against Donald Trump? That would be interfering in our election by the Russians?

	COMEY: I don't want to say.


This one document managed to:

- spark a political firestorm between the U.S. left and right
- politicize, distort, and discredit the narrative of Russia's meddling to help Trump and their activities in general
- strain relations between the U.S. and the U.K.
- strain relations between U.S. intelligence agencies and Trump (things would probably be going a lot better right now if Trump trusted the USIC over his "advisors")
- embarrass MI6 and the FBI
- create a scandal for the FBI and spark an investigation into their conduct


Which raises the question: why on earth is Comey promoting it? 


http://www.npr.org/2017/06/07/531643428/comey-opening-statement-for-senate-intelligence-hearing-annotated
	At the conclusion of that briefing, I remained alone with the President-Elect to brief him on some personally sensitive aspects of the information assembled during the assessment.

	The IC leadership thought it important, for a variety of reasons, to alert the incoming President to the existence of this material, even though it was salacious and unverified. Among those reasons were: (1) we knew the media was about to publicly report the material and we believed the IC should not keep knowledge of the material and its imminent release from the President-Elect; and (2) to the extent there was some effort to compromise an incoming President, we could blunt any such effort with a defensive briefing.

	...During the dinner, the President returned to the salacious material I had briefed him about on January 6, and, as he had done previously, expressed his disgust for the allegations and strongly denied them. He said he was considering ordering me to investigate the alleged incident to prove it didn’t happen. I replied that he should give that careful thought because it might create a narrative that we were investigating him personally, which we weren’t, and because it was very difficult to prove a negative. He said he would think about it and asked me to think about it.

	...He said he had nothing to do with Russia, had not been involved with hookers in Russia, and had always assumed he was being recorded when in Russia. He asked what we could do to “lift the cloud.” I responded that we were investigating the matter as quickly as we could, and that there would be great benefit, if we didn’t find anything, to our having done the work well. He agreed, but then re-emphasized the problems this was causing him.


http://time.com/4810345/james-comey-testimony-real-time-transcript/
	Chairman Richard Burr - North Carolina:
	In the public domain, is this question of the steel dossier a document that has been around now for over a year, I'm not sure when the FBI first took possession of it, but the media had it before you had it and we had it. At the time of your departure from the FBI, was the FBI able to confirm any criminal allegations contained In the steel document?

	James Comey:
	Mr. Chairman, I don't think that's a question I can answer in an open setting. It goes into the details of the investigation.

	...Chairman Richard Burr - North Carolina:
	At what point would that recruitment become a counterintelligence threat to our country?

	James Comey:
	Difficult to answer in the abstract. But when a foreign power is using -- especially coercion or some sort of pressure to try to co-opt an American, especially a government official to act on its behalf that's a serious concern to the FBI and at the heart of the FBI's counterintelligence mission.

	Chairman Richard Burr - North Carolina:
	If you've got a 36-page document of specific claims that are out there, the FBI would have to -- for counterintelligence reasons -- try to verify anything that might be claimed in there, one, and probably first and foremost, is the counterintelligence concerns that we have about blackmail? would that be an accurate statement?

	James Comey:
	Yes if the FBI receives a credible allegation there is some attempt to coerce an American on behalf of a foreign power that's the basis on which a case is open.

	Chairman Richard Burr - North Carolina:
	When you read the dossier, what was your reaction given that it was 100% directed at the President-Elect?

	James Comey:
	Not a question I can answer in an open setting, Mr. Chairman.

	...Susan Collins - Maine:
	And then on -- and that's why you volunteered the information. Then on the January 27th dinner, you told the President that he should be careful about asking you to investigate because, quote, you might create a narrative that we are investigating him personally, which we weren't. Were you limiting that statement to counterintelligence investigations or more broadly such as a criminal investigation?

	James Comey:
	The context was similar, I didn't modify the word investigation. Again, he was reacting strongly against that unverified material saying I'm tempting you to order to investigate it and I said you want to be careful about that because it might create a narrative that we're investigating you personally.

	...James Comey: ...I was speaking to him and briefing him about some salacious and unverified material. It was in a context of that that he had a strong and defensive reaction about that not being true, and my reading of it was, It was important for me to assure him we were not personally investigating him, and so the context then was actually narrower, focused on what I just talked to him about but very important because it was first true and second I was very, very much about being in kind of a -- kind of a J. Edgar Hoover type situation. I didn't want him thinking I was briefing him on this, to sort of hang it over him in some way, I was briefing him on it because we had been told by the media it was about to launch, we don't want to be keeping that from him, and if there was -- he needed to know this was being said. But I was very keen not to leave him with an impression that the bureau was trying to do something to him, and so that's the context in which I said, sir, we're not personally investigating you.


Comey made the dossier a centerpiece of his testimony with statements that are easy to interpret as hints of its credibility, which the media jumped on once again:


http://www.thedailybeast.com/comey-implies-trump-dossier-contained-credible-allegations
	Comey Implies Trump Dossier Contained ‘Credible Allegations’

	Former FBI Director James Comey implied Thursday that the now-infamous 36-page dossier contained “credible allegations.” Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) asked, during Comey’s testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee: “So if you got a 36-page document of specific claims that are out there...


https://thinkprogress.org/comey-testimony-dossier-b4ba129a5e22
	Comey suggests there’s some truth to allegations in the explosive Trump dossier

	“Mr. Chairman, I don’t think that’s a question I can answer in an open setting because it goes into the details of the investigation,” said Comey, a response that seemed to catch Burr off guard.


https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-06-08/comey-opens-door-to-investigate-trump-dossier
	Comey Opens Door to Investigate Trump Dossier

	If Trump was lying about having nothing to do with Russia -- or if he was lying about the charge that Russian intelligence had gathered compromising material about him because of a dalliance with Russian prostitute -- that would constitute a federal crime.

	To be extremely clear, I’m not saying that I have any reason to believe that Trump lied to Comey. I don’t.

	But the statements alone, coupled with the dossier that contradicts them, provide sufficient reason for Mueller to extend his investigation to consider Trump’s own Russia related conduct -- including the information discussed in the dossier.


http://www.dailykos.com/story/2017/6/8/1669966/-Comey-just-verified-the-veracity-of-the-hooker-dossier
	Comey just verified the veracity of the 'hooker dossier'


http://dailycaller.com/2017/06/08/revealed-how-the-fbi-inadvertently-turned-an-unverified-trump-dossier-into-hard-news/
	Revealed: How The FBI Inadvertently Turned An Unverified Trump Dossier Into Hard News

	Reporting on their existence makes little sense without any way to confirm the allegations made in the dossier.The establishment media, hostile to the president-elect, was champing at the bit to release the dossier, and the IC briefing was all the verification needed.


http://insider.foxnews.com/2017/06/09/ann-coulter-tucker-carlson-james-comey-hearing-not-clearing-trump
	"It's the most insane thing I've ever heard," Coulter said.

	She added that the only documented collusion between Russia and Americans during the election was related to the defamatory Trump dossier.

	"Whatever happened to that?" Coulter said. "That was a Russian-produced dossier, used by, first, Never Trumpers, then the Hillary Clinton campaign, then the FBI, and broadcast hysterically by CNN. That was a Russian-produced dossier. That is the only evidence we have of Russia trying to collude."


http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/06/09/comey-testimony-leaves-questions-unanswered-about-anti-trump-dossier.html
	Comey testimony leaves questions unanswered about anti-Trump dossier

	As previously reported by Fox News, Comey considered the unverified dossier prepared by Steele to be so important, he insisted it be included in January's final intelligence community report on Russian meddling in the election.


This isn't the first time Comey has done this:


http://www.cnn.com/2017/04/18/politics/fbi-dossier-carter-page-donald-trump-russia-investigation/index.html
	Washington (CNN)The FBI last year used a dossier of allegations of Russian ties to Donald Trump's campaign as part of the justification to win approval to secretly monitor a Trump associate, according to US officials briefed on the investigation.

	The dossier has also been cited by FBI Director James Comey in some of his briefings to members of Congress in recent weeks, as one of the sources of information the bureau has used to bolster its investigation, according to US officials briefed on the probe.

	...The dossier first came to light when CNN reported that a summary of it had been presented to President Obama and President-elect Trump back in December by top US Intelligence officials.

	Comey's briefings to lawmakers stand in contrast to efforts in recent months by the bureau and US intelligence agencies to try to distance themselves from the dossier.

	...Comey hasn't mentioned the dossier in all his briefings to lawmakers, according to people familiar with the briefings. To some of them, he has emphasized that the FBI gathered evidence as part of its investigation to support seeking FISA court approval and to take other steps as part of the probe that began last July, according to the officials briefed of the probe.


https://apnews.com/152579d488a740b2a8d39fbe2f34506d/biden-intel-officials-told-us-trump-allegations-might-leak
	Jan. 12, 2017

	Vice President Joe Biden said Thursday that top intelligence leaders told him and President Barack Obama they felt obligated to inform them about uncorroborated allegations about President-elect Donald Trump out of concern the information would become public and catch them off-guard.

	In an interview, Biden said neither he nor Obama asked U.S. intelligence agencies to try to corroborate the unverified claims that Russia had obtained compromising sexual and financial allegations about Trump.

	“I think it’s something that obviously the agency thinks they have to track down,” Biden said. He added later, “It surprised me in that it made it to the point where the agency, the FBI thought they had to pursue it.”

	...“As a matter of fact, the president was like, ’What does this have anything to do with anything?’” Biden said. He said intelligence leaders responded by saying “Well, we feel obliged to tell you, Mr. President, because you may hear about it. We’re going to tell him,” referring to Trump.

	Biden said intelligence leaders told him and Obama that they couldn’t say whether or not the allegations were true or untrue. He said there was “hardly any discussion” about the allegations in the briefing.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/10/politics/donald-trump-intelligence-report-russia/index.html
	January 11, 2017

	(CNN)Classified documents presented last week to President Obama and President-elect Trump included allegations that Russian operatives claim to have compromising personal and financial information about Mr. Trump, multiple US officials with direct knowledge of the briefings tell CNN.

	The allegations were presented in a two-page synopsis that was appended to a report on Russian interference in the 2016 election. The allegations came, in part, from memos compiled by a former British intelligence operative, whose past work US intelligence officials consider credible. The FBI is investigating the credibility and accuracy of these allegations, which are based primarily on information from Russian sources, but has not confirmed many essential details in the memos about Mr. Trump.

	The classified briefings last week were presented by four of the senior-most US intelligence chiefs -- Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, FBI Director James Comey, CIA Director John Brennan, and NSA Director Admiral Mike Rogers.


https://www.buzzfeed.com/kenbensinger/these-reports-allege-trump-has-deep-ties-to-russia
	CNN reported Tuesday that a two-page synopsis of the report was given to President Obama and Trump.

	Now BuzzFeed News is publishing the full document so that Americans can make up their own minds about allegations about the president-elect that have circulated at the highest levels of the US government.


http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/fbi-s-comey-told-trump-about-russia-dossier-after-intel-n706416
	A senior U.S. official said that it was FBI Director James Comey himself who pulled Trump aside after the briefing and spoke with him one-on-one about the so-called "dossier," 35 pages of memos prepared by a former British spy for an anti-Trump client prior to last year's election. 


http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/01/donald-trump-russia-report-intelligence-community
	At the same time, the fact that the nation’s top intelligence officials chose to present a summary version of the dossier to both President Obama and President-elect Trump, as CNN reports they did last week, indicates that they may have had a relatively high degree of confidence that at least some of the claims therein were credible


http://www.businessinsider.com/ex-cia-officers-trump-dossier-russia-2017-1
	The CIA and the FBI would not have briefed the president and the president-elect on claims that Russia has compromising information on Donald Trump if they did not take the allegations seriously, said former CIA operatives and analysts who spoke to Business Insider.

	"Most of the information that passes across the CIA's desk throughout the day ends up on the cutting-room floor because it's not deemed to be credible or relevant," said Evan McMullin, a former CIA operations officer who ran as an independent during the 2016 presidential election.


https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/jan/12/intelligence-sources-vouch-credibility-donald-trump-russia-dossier-author
	At his press briefing on Wednesday, the president-elect dared the world’s media to scrutinise the 35 pages of claims, before throwing down a challenge – where’s the proof? Nobody had any. Case closed.

	But in the rush to trample all over the dossier and its contents, one key question remained. Why had America’s intelligence agencies felt it necessary to provide a compendium of the claims to Barack Obama and Trump himself?

	And the answer to that lies in the credibility of its apparent author, the ex-MI6 officer Christopher Steele, the quality of the sources he has, and...


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/decision-to-brief-trump-on-allegations-brought-a-secret-and-unsubstantiated-dossier-into-the-public-domain/2017/01/11/275a3a6c-d830-11e6-b8b2-cb5164beba6b_story.html
	Decision to brief Trump on allegations brought a secret and unsubstantiated dossier into the public domain

	By Greg Miller, Ellen Nakashima and Karen DeYoung January 11

	As the nation’s top spies prepared to brief President Obama and President-elect Donald Trump on Russian interference in the 2016 election, they faced an excruciatingly delicate question: Should they mention the salacious allegations that had been circulating in Washington for months that Moscow had compromising information on the incoming president?

	Ultimately, they concluded they had no choice. A 35-page dossier packed with details of supposed compromising personal information, alleged financial entanglements and political intrigue was already in such wide circulation in Washington that every major news organization seemed to have a copy.

	“You’d be derelict if you didn’t” mention the dossier, a U.S. official said. To ignore the file, produced by a private-sector security firm, would only make the supposed guardians of the nation’s secrets seem uninformed, officials said, adding that many were convinced that it was only a matter of time before someone decided to publish the material.

	Their decision appears to have hastened that outcome, triggering coverage of politically charged allegations that news organizations had tried to run down for months but could find no basis for publishing until they were summarized and included alongside a highly classified report assembled by the nation’s intelligence services.

	...But U.S. intelligence officials appear to have been caught off-guard by the fallout, including a blistering attack by Trump, who accused spy agencies of engaging in Nazi-like tactics to smear him.

	In an effort to contain the damage...

	...But linking a collection of unsubstantiated allegations to a classified report that is supposed to convey the intelligence community’s firmest conclusions about Russian election interference has blurred the distinction between corroborated intelligence and innuendo.

	Former U.S. intelligence officials described the inclusion of the summary — drawn from “opposition research” done by a political research firm — as highly unusual.

	...“How did this former British intelligence officer talk to all these Russian officials and not get arrested for espionage?” the former official asked. Steele’s identity and association with his investigations firm are public, and are almost certainly known to Russian counterintelligence.

	“They would have been all over him,” the former official said. “There are aspects of this [dossier] that are believable when you read it. There are other aspects that aren’t.”

	Some details would seem relatively easy for the FBI to assess, including meetings between close associates of Trump and Putin allies.

	But a senior law enforcement official acknowledged that other claims — including sweeping characterizations of relationships and rivalries inside the Kremlin — are more elusive. “This is not something we can validate or check out,” the official said. “It’s the view of people in Russia. It’s not like we can go out and determine its veracity.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	KING: ...yourself, Admiral Rogers, Director Brennan, and General Clapper went to Trump tower to meet with President Trump. The media reports are that at the end of that meeting, Director Comey, you presented president-elect Trump with a copy of the now infamous or famous dossier. And I don't know how many people were in the room, but within hours, that was leaked to the media and that gave the media the excuse or the rationale to publish almost the entire dossier.

	Do you -- does that violate any law? I mean you were at a classified briefing with the president-elect of the United States and it had to be a very, very small universe of people who knew that you handed them that dossier and it was leaked out within hours. Are you making any effort to find out who leaked it and do you believe that constitute a criminal violation?

	COMEY: I can't say, Mr. King except I can answer in general.


The FBI knew the dossier was unverified and suspicious. The best thing they could have done would have been to ignore it, and the second best thing would to downplay it. Instead, Comey decided to brief everybody about the dossier and make it look like the FBI took it seriously. While members of the FBI were trying to discredit it, Comey's friend Benjamin Wittes (http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/24/politics/benjamin-wittes-james-comey-friend-anderson-cooper-cnntv/index.html) went to the media to tell everybody that the briefings meant the dossier has credibility:


https://www.wsj.com/articles/spy-agencies-investigating-claims-trump-advisers-worked-with-russian-agents-1484101731
	January 9, 2017 

	Spy Agencies Investigating Claims Trump Advisers Worked With Russian Agents

	By Shane Harris, Devlin Barrett and Alan Cullison

	...The FBI has found no evidence that he traveled to the Czech Republic, where the meeting allegedly took place in August of last year, officials said.


https://www.lawfareblog.com/why-are-trump-allegations-hanging-around-when-they-havent-been-substantiated
	By Susan Hennessey, Benjamin Wittes

	Thursday, January 12, 2017, 5:39 PM

	On one hand, the fact that no specifics appear to have been validated should give everyone a lot of pause. If someone puts a lot of falsifiable facts on the table and large numbers of people spend large amounts of time trying to corroborate them and cannot do so, that generally tends to indicate that they are not true.

	And yet, the intelligence community briefed the President. It appears the FBI is continuing its investigation. DNI James Clapper issued a statement yesterday, reading in part:

		The IC has not made any judgment that the information in this document is reliable, and we did not rely upon it in any way for our conclusions. However, part of our obligation is to ensure that policymakers are provided with the fullest possible picture of any matters that might affect national security.

	This indicates that while the documents have not been validated, the government continues to take them seriously for some reason.

	The intelligence community simply does not concern itself with every crazy allegation against a sitting or incoming President that might be circulating or out there in the ether. 


It's unclear why Comey acted like the dossier was important and continued to promote it, even as British and U.S. officials speculated that the document was a Russian fake. Reportedly, this isn't the only time Comey has confused U.S. officials and the public about Russian forgeries, either. When the FBI received a Russian intelligence document they determined to be a fake, Comey didn't tell lawmakers the document was fake when he briefed them on it:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/how-a-dubious-russian-document-influenced-the-fbis-handling-of-the-clinton-probe/2017/05/24/f375c07c-3a95-11e7-9e48-c4f199710b69_story.html
	How a dubious Russian document influenced the FBI’s handling of the Clinton probe

	A secret document that officials say played a key role in then-FBI Director James B. Comey’s handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation has long been viewed within the FBI as unreliable and possibly a fake, according to people familiar with its contents.

	In the midst of the 2016 presidential primary season, the FBI received what was described as a Russian intelligence document claiming a tacit understanding between the Clinton campaign and the Justice Department over the inquiry into whether she intentionally revealed classified information through her use of a private email server.

	The Russian document cited a supposed email describing how then-Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch had privately assured someone in the Clinton campaign that the email investigation would not push too deeply into the matter. If true, the revelation of such an understanding would have undermined the integrity of the FBI’s investigation.

	Current and former officials have said that Comey relied on the document in making his July decision to announce on his own, without Justice Department involvement, that the investigation was over. That public announcement — in which he criticized Clinton and made extensive comments about the evidence — set in motion a chain of other FBI moves that Democrats now say helped Trump win the presidential election.

	But according to the FBI’s own assessment, the document was bad intelligence — and according to people familiar with its contents, possibly even a fake sent to confuse the bureau.

	...From the moment the bureau received the document from a source in early March 2016, its veracity was the subject of an internal debate at the FBI. Several people familiar with the matter said the bureau’s doubts about the document hardened in August when officials became more certain that there was nothing to substantiate the claims in the Russian document. FBI officials knew the bureau never had the underlying email with the explosive allegation, if it ever existed.

	...“It didn’t mean anything to the investigation until after [senior FBI officials] had to defend themselves,” said one person familiar with the matter. “Then they decided it was important. But it’s junk, and they already knew that.”

	An FBI spokesman declined to comment. Comey did not respond to requests for comment.

	...After the bureau first received the document, it attempted to use the source to obtain the referenced email but could not do so, these people said. The source that provided the document, they said, had previously supplied other information that the FBI was also unable to corroborate.


(Since it needs to be asked: is that source Christopher Steele?)


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	GRASSLEY: Okay, moving on to another subject, the New York Times recently reported that the FBI had found a troubling email among the ones the Russians hacked from Democrat operatives. The email reportedly provided assurances that Attorney General Lynch would protect Secretary Clinton by making sure the FBI investigation “didn't go too far.”

	How, and when, did you first learn of this document? Also, who sent it and who received it?

	COMEY: That's not a question I can answer in this forum, Mr. Chairman, because it would call for a classified response. I have briefed leadership of the intelligence committees on that particular issue, but I can't talk about it here.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/26/politics/james-comey-fbi-investigation-fake-russian-intelligence/index.html
	In classified sessions with members of Congress several months ago, Comey described those emails in the Russian claim and expressed his concern that this Russian information could "drop" and that would undermine the Clinton investigation and the Justice Department in general, according to one government official.

	Still, Comey did not let on to lawmakers that there were doubts about the veracity of the intelligence, according to sources familiar with the briefings. It is unclear why Comey was not more forthcoming in a classified setting.

	...The Washington Post reported Wednesday that this Russian intelligence was unreliable. US officials now tell CNN that Comey and FBI officials actually knew early on that this intelligence was indeed false.

	In fact, acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe went to Capitol Hill Thursday to push back on the notion that the FBI was duped, according to a source familiar with a meeting McCabe had with members of the Senate intelligence committee.

	...In classified sessions with members of Congress several months ago, Comey described those emails in the Russian claim and expressed his concern that this Russian information could "drop" and that would undermine the Clinton investigation and the Justice Department in general, according to one government official.

	Still, Comey did not let on to lawmakers that there were doubts about the veracity of the intelligence, according to sources familiar with the briefings. It is unclear why Comey was not more forthcoming in a classified setting.

	Sources close to Comey tell CNN he felt that it didn't matter if the information was accurate, because his big fear was that if the Russians released the information publicly, there would be no way for law enforcement and intelligence officials to discredit it without burning intelligence sources and methods. There were other factors behind Comey's decision, sources say. 

	In at least one classified session, Comey cited that intelligence as the primary reason he took the unusual step of publicly announcing the end of the Clinton email probe.

	In that briefing, Comey did not even mention the other reason he gave in public testimony for acting independently of the Justice Department -- that Lynch was compromised because Bill Clinton boarded her plane and spoke to her during the investigation, these sources told CNN.

	Multiple US officials tell CNN that to this day Russia is trying to spread false information in the US -- through elected officials and American intelligence and law enforcement operatives -- in order to cloud and confuse ongoing investigations.


If these documents are Russian fakes, Comey hasn't done a very good job of making that clear. Is he acting on the belief that they're credible?


http://www.npr.org/2017/06/07/531643428/comey-opening-statement-for-senate-intelligence-hearing-annotated
	and (2) to the extent there was some effort to compromise an incoming President, we could blunt any such effort with a defensive briefing.


http://time.com/4810345/james-comey-testimony-real-time-transcript/
	Chairman Richard Burr - North Carolina:
	If you've got a 36-page document of specific claims that are out there, the FBI would have to -- for counterintelligence reasons -- try to verify anything that might be claimed in there, one, and probably first and foremost, is the counterintelligence concerns that we have about blackmail? would that be an accurate statement?

	James Comey:
	Yes if the FBI receives a credible allegation there is some attempt to coerce an American on behalf of a foreign power that's the basis on which a case is open.


Or was he just worried they'll leak to the press?


http://www.npr.org/2017/06/07/531643428/comey-opening-statement-for-senate-intelligence-hearing-annotated
	Among those reasons were: (1) we knew the media was about to publicly report the material and we believed the IC should not keep knowledge of the material and its imminent release from the President-Elect;


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-fbi-leaks-idUSKBN12Y2QD
	FBI fear of leaks drove decision on emails linked to Clinton: sources

 	FBI Director James Comey was driven in part by a fear of leaks from within his agency when he decided to tell Congress the FBI was investigating newly discovered emails related to Hillary Clinton, law enforcement sources said on Thursday.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	SEN. DIANNE FEINSTEIN (D-CALIF.): ...Why didn't you just do the investigation as you would normally with no public announcement?

	COMEY: A great question, senator. Thank you. October 27, the investigative team that had finished the investigation in July focused on Secretary Clinton's emails asked to meet with me.

	...And so I stared at speak and conceal. Speak would be really bad. There's an election in 11 days, Lordy, that would be really bad. Concealing in my view would be catastrophic, not just to the FBI, but well beyond. And honestly, as between really bad and catastrophic, I said to my team we got to walk into the world of really bad. I've got to tell Congress that we're restarting this, not in some frivolous way, in a hugely significant way.


Comey doesn't speak as to what the catastrophic consequences of "concealing" news of the emails on Weiner's laptop would have been (although he did conceal that the emails were duplicates: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/onpolitics/2016/11/06/read-full-text-comeys-letter-new-clinton-emails/93398304/ which might have had consequences of its own: Clinton's polling didn't fully recover after the announcement). But if his Oct 28 letter was motivated by "fear of leaks," then we'd have to believe that all the Russians have to do to swing our elections is mail forgeries to the FBI. 

But U.S. intelligence knows how to deal with Russian forgeries:


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP91-00901R000600210056-1.pdf
	CIA, allies change policy, begin openly exposing Soviet intelligence

	Washington (KNT)--The Central Intelligence Agency and allied intelligence agencies have declared open season on their KGB counterparts, exposing Soviet intelligence operations throughout the world.

	In the weeks following the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, there have been major exposures of Soviet spy networks in New Zealand, Spain, Canada and Japan. Agents have been exposed and, in some cases, expelled.

	Intelligence veterans note that this flurry of "rollbacks" is in marked contrast to the days of detente when the tight little world of spy versus spy simmered clandestinely.

	In addition, the CIA has given reporters and friendly intelligence agencies hundreds of pages of previously secret documents about the KGB's activities. They detail recent plots to discredit United States peace moves in the Mideast and to derail nuclear arms policy talks between the U.S. and Western European allies.

	"There are always a lot of spy cases on the back burner," said a former U.S. counterespionage official, who kept tabs on the KGB during the Cold War. "Sometimes word comes down to bring them in. It's like deciding wen to play your trump in a card game."

	Perhaps most damaging to the KGB was a hearing on Capitol Hill early this month. For the first time in the CIA's history, testimony by the agency's chief spy-master, the director of covert operations, was handed to reporters. Until then, John McMahon's identity as deputy director for operations was itself a secret.

	Mr. McMahon's testimony disclosed a mass of sensitive data. It included copies of what Mr. McMahon called KGB forgeries of American diplomatic documents, which were part of an apparent scheme to undermine relations between the U.S. and Egyptian President Anwar el Sadat.

	Mr. McMahon told the House Oversight Subcommittee on Intelligence that the KGB forged a letter over the fabricated signature of Herman F. Eilts, ambassador to Egypt, stating that the U.S. was planning to dump Mr. Sadat.

	"We must repudiate him [Mr. Sadat] and get rid of him without hesitation," said the falsified letter, which was addressed to Adam Stansfield Turner, director of central intelligence. Mr. McMahon said the letter was planted in a Syrian newspaper October 1, and was the KGB's third forgery involving Mr. Eilts's "signature."

	In his testimony, Mr. McMahon said, "The KGB exercises day-to-day operation responsibility for forgery efforts, but its annual and five-to-seven-year work plans are approved by the highest levels of the Soviet political authority."

	In all, Mr. McMahon gave the subcommittee 16 documents he called KGB forgeries. They show the Soviet spy agency writing nonexistent press conferences for President Carter in which he made insulting remarks about Greece, an Army field manual urging subversion of host countries and many falsified diplomatic cables.

	Mr. McMahon also disclosed a CIA estimate of how much the KGB spends a year--"our rough estimate of $3 billion a year is probably a conservative figure."

	The CIA estimated that the KGB spent $200 million last year for support to guerilla groups, $100 million on clandestine radio stations and another #200 million for "special campaigns"--including an effort to stop American plans to build the neutron bomb and place nuclear missiles in Europe.

	A spokesman for the House subcommittee said Mr. McMahon's testimony delivered in secret session February 6, was released last week to "dramatize" recent increases in Soviet forgery schemes. [author's aside: don't you wish we had a House Intelligence Committee like that today?] Mr. McMahon said the KGB had been using forgeries since the 1950s.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	COMEY: ...It was an incredibly painful choice, but actually not all that hard between very bad and catastrophic. I had to tell Congress that we were taking these additional steps. I prayed to find a third door. I couldn't find it.


If Comey knew there was a Russian plot to discredit our institutions, why would he let it affect his decision making? If he cares so much about transparency, why not educate the American public and expose the plot? That's what our intelligence agencies did before.

Actually, I asked Comey to do exactly that. When I started doing this about a year ago, I knew the Russians were using propaganda to politicize their interference. I thought that our elected officials were too untrustworthy or partisan to convince the public of what was the Russians were doing. I had found and interacted with Russian propagandists promoting Trump and inciting violence and racism on social media, and I knew there was a lot more going on than what the government was telling us. What America needed, I thought, was someone honest and apolitical to tell us what was really going on. After hearing his speech in the July 7th Oversight hearings, I became convinced Comey was the answer to all of our problems:


https://www.c-span.org/video/?412315-1/fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-hillary-clinton-email-probe&start=11658
	Rep Desaulnier: Director, I just want to thank you as others have, and I know you don't need this. But I think the American people clearly need to hear it. You've done a wonderful job today. But there are moments in my political life and as an American where I despair for the future of this country, not often. But in those moments comes an individual like yourself, either by providence or good fortune or by the framework of the U.S. constitution. I really believe you served this country and all Americans well, irrespective of their party affiliation.

	Really two lines of questions: one is I--another colleague has brought this up--but you mentioned just previous testimony about the bedrock and the importance of public confidence and public safety institutions, yours and all. So I just want to give you an opportunity, I think you have responded to this multiple times, but give you a little more opportunity because I think it's important for the American public to know that the system isn't rigged, that there are people such as yourself and the fifteen individuals who worked on this case and others that do their job and believe in the constitution of the United States. And if you have any further comments about comments that would say that the system's rigged and Americans should give up on the system.

	Director Comey: One of the reasons I welcome to have the opportunity to have this conversation is I was raised by great parents who taught me you can't care what other people think about you. Actually, in my business, I have to, and deeply do, that people have confidence that the system's not fixed, against black people, for rich people, for powerful people. It's very, very important that the American people understand that there really are people that you pay for with your tax dollars who don't give a rip about Democrats or Republicans or this or that, who care about finding out what is true. And I am lucky to lead an organization that is that way to its core. I get a ten-year term to ensure that I stay outside of politics, but in a way it's easy. I lead an organization that is resolutely apolitical. We are tough aggressive people. If we can make a case, we'll make a case. We do not care what the person's stripes are or what their bank account looks like.

	And I worry very much when people doubt that. It's the reason I did the press conference I did two days ago. I care about the FBI's reputation, I care about the Justice Department, I care about the whole system deeply. And so I decided I'm going to do something no director's ever done before. I'm not going to tell the Attorney General or anybody else what I'm going to say or even that I'm going to say it. They didn't know, nor did the media know what I was going to talk about until I walked out and offered extraordinary transparency which I'm sure confused and bugged a lot of people.

	It's essential in this democracy that people see as much as they can so they can make their judgment. Again, they may conclude I'm an idiot, I should reason differently, but what I hope they will not conclude is that I'm a dishonest person. I'm here trying to do the right thing in the right way, and I lead 36,000 people who have that as their spine. That's what I want them to know. I don't care that people agree or disagree. That's what's wonderful about our Democracy. But at its core, you need to know there are good people trying to do the right thing all day long. And you pay for them and we'll never forget that.


In Comey I saw someone devoted to the values of our country, unafraid to break norms to tell the American public what we needed to hear. I knew the Russians were trying to break-down the values that hold-together our society, and I saw that their propagandists were attacking Comey. So I made it my missions to defend Comey however I could, waging a sort of one-man counter-propaganda war on his behalf on social media.

I kept watching Comey's hearings. When I saw that Congress was attacking him for his handling of the email investigation, I was sure Comey knew more than what he was letting on. I convinced myself that Comey knew there was a Russian plot to cause chaos and discredit our institutions, and I thought that Congress somehow didn't know about it, or that maybe Comey tried to warn them and they didn't believe him, and that's why they were attacking him. So I did my best to try find evidence of what the Russians were going to do and warn Congress. Like Comey, I was worried that there would be a catastrophe in the coming weeks.

Around early October, I thought I had figured it out. I sent members of the Oversight Committee an email saying what I'd seen in media reports: that the Russians were plotting a campaign of chaos and violence on election day. On top of this, I warned them that the Russians could make this even worse by hacking our voting registration systems. I took Comey at his word when said the Russians wouldn't be able to tamper with the vote:


https://judiciary.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/114-91_22125.pdf
	Ms. LOFGREN. All right. I am hoping that we can get some insight in an appropriate classified setting on that. Now, we have watched with some concern—and I know you are also concerned—about the Russian intrusion into our election system. It has been reported to us that the Russians hacked into the Democratic National Committee database. They also hacked into the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. And it seems that they are making an effort to influence the outcome of this election. We have been warned that the information stolen might not just be released but also be altered and forged and then released,in an effort to impact the election here in the United States. Yesterday, there were press reports—and I don’t know if they are accurate, and I am interested if you are able to tell us—that the Russians have also hacked the telephones of Democratic staffers and that there was a request for Democratic staffers to bring their cell phones into the FBI to have them mirrored. Can you tell us anything about that? 

	Mr. COMEY. I can’t at this point. What I can say in response to the first part of your question, any hacking is something we take very seriously. Any hacking in connection with this Nation’s election system is something we take extraordinarily seriously, the whole of government. So it is something the FBI is spending a lot of time on right now to try and understand. So what are they up to and what does it involve and what is the scope of it to equip the President to decide upon the appropriate response. And so that is one of reasons I have to be very careful about what I say about it. That work is ongoing. I should make clear to folks when we talk about our election system, there has been a lot of press reporting about attempts to intrude into voter registration databases. Those are connected to the Internet. That is very different than the electoral mechanism in this country, which is not. 


So, I concluded that the Russians wouldn't be able to influence the election outcome, but they would be able to cause chaos or even violence by making it look like the vote was being rigged, just like what happened during the primaries:


http://tucson.com/news/local/officials-look-into-reports-of-pima-county-voting-problems/article_12c366a5-cea7-5152-89c1-b9b47e9ac379.html
	As Maricopa County voters dealt with excruciatingly long wait times, Pima County residents struggled with a different challenge on Tuesday: incorrect party-affiliation listings that prevented some from casting a ballot.


http://www.usnews.com/news/politics/articles/2016-04-25/poll-worker-voters-given-wrong-ballots-in-arizona-primary
	Voters dismayed with Arizona's problematic presidential primary voiced frustrations with long lines and registration issues Monday during a hearing for a court challenge to have the election results thrown out.


http://www.latimes.com/politics/la-pol-ca-voting-problems-20160607-snap-htmlstory.html
	California voters faced a tough time at the polls Tuesday, with many voters saying they have encountered broken machines, polling sites that opened late and incomplete voter rolls, particularly in Los Angeles County.

	The result? Instead of a quick in-and-out vote, many California voters were handed the dreaded pink provisional ballot — which takes longer to fill out, longer for election officials to verify and which tends to leave voters wondering whether their votes will be counted.


http://koin.com/2016/04/20/voters-find-wrong-party-affiliation-on-oregon-registry/
	Voter registration errors aren’t just occurring in states like Arizona and New York. Some Oregonians claim their party affiliation recently changed on the state’s digital registry, and they don’t know why.

	Elections Director Jim Williams says 120-150 voters are calling the Secretary of State’s office every day to complain about errors in party affiliations.


http://gothamist.com/2016/04/06/voter_confusion_primary_ny.php
	Since shortly before the late deadline to register to vote in the April 19th presidential primary in New York, state Board of Elections spokesman Tom Connolly said his office has been fielding nearly 100 calls a day from voters who are "pissed off" about their registration status, for one reason or another. On social media, there are dozens of reports from voters who say they checked their registration online recently and found that their party affiliation had been switched, which is disqualifying because New York's primaries are closed, or that that their registration couldn't be found altogether.


https://news.vice.com/article/new-york-lawsuit-voter-registration-problems-primary
	More than 200 voters have signed onto an emergency lawsuit against the state — a majority of them Democrats — saying that their voter registration was inaccurately changed, never updated, or had disappeared altogether. Election Justice USA, a new voter suppression watchdog, filed the lawsuit on behalf of New York voters on Tuesday morning just before the polls opened.

	Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said in a statement on Wednesday that he was "deeply troubled by the volume and consistency of voting irregularities" during the primary. Schneiderman's office set up a hotline for voters experiencing issues at the polls on Tuesday, and he said that his office received "more than one thousand complaints."


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/officials-investigating-why-126000-voters-were-purged-from-ny-rolls/
	Multiple investigations were launched and a top election official was suspended this week after tens of thousands of registered voters were found to be missing from the rolls during Tuesday’s Democratic primary in New York.


http://www.californiacountynews.org/news/2016/07/riverside-da-someone-changed-voters%E2%80%99-party-affiliations-without-consent
	Someone with access to voters' personal information used the state’s voter registration site to change the party affiliations of dozens of Riverside County residents ahead of the June 7 election, District Attorney Mike Hestrin said Wednesday. The revelation is raising serious concerns about voter fraud and the security of the state's online voter registration system in particular.


http://capitolfax.com/2016/07/21/foreign-hack-attack-on-state-voter-registration-site/
	The State Board of Elections (SBE) fell victim to a cyberattack that was detected on July 12, 2016. Specifically, the target was the [Illinois Vital Records System] database. Once discovered, State Board of Elections closed the point of entry. On July 13th, once the severity of the attack was realized, as a precautionary measure, the entire IVRS system was shut down, including online voter registration.


http://www.azfamily.com/story/32388223/fbi-trying-to-determine-if-arizona-voter-database-was-hacked
	State cybersecurity investigators are trying to determine if personal information about millions of Arizona voters was improperly accessed or tampered with after the FBI found evidence of a potential hack.

	Arizona’s voter registration system remained offline [July 6, 2016] as a team combed the troves of data for any issues, said Matthew Roberts, a spokesman for the Arizona Secretary of State’s Office.


I sent all this to members of Congress, telling them now is not the time for partisan games, and we have to act to warn Americans of what the Russians have been doing and could do on election day. I told them Congress or Director Comey should warn the public that Russia could cause chaos and hack voting registrations again, lest Russia use their propaganda to blame their hacking on Clinton (whom many Trump supporters expected to rig the election  http://time.com/4533059/donald-trump-election-poll-hillary-clinton/), and potentially cause riots and unrest.

Instead, a few weeks later, Comey sent his email investigation letter to the Oversight Committee, and Rep. Chaffetz immediately leaked it. Eleven days later, Trump won in a surprise victory.

There was no chaos, riots, or terrorist attacks. As it turns out, the worries about election day violence might have been overblown:


https://qz.com/829357/us-presidential-election-2016-how-to-prepare-for-election-day-violence-if-trump-loses-or-wins/
	Americans like me who survived Ferguson understand just how bad Election Day violence could get
	Sarah Kendzior
	November 07, 2016

	In August, Donald Trump’s adviser, Roger Stone, announced there would be a “bloodbath” should the GOP nominee lose. Since then, Trump’s white supremacist fans have given many indications that they intend to make good on his promise. Trump campaign chairman Steven Bannon has bragged of “voter suppression” efforts while fans proclaim plans of voter intimidation. Authorities have thwarted violence aimed at Muslim communities, including a planned bomb attack in Kansas and a planned Columbine-style shooting in California. A black church was burned, with Trump’s name spray-painted on the side.

	Numerous militia groups, empowered by the recent acquittal of a militia in Oregon, have proclaimed they will enact vengeance in Trump’s name as well. Meanwhile, factions of the FBI—the organization that arrested the Kansas bombers and are responsible for tracking homegrown terrorism—appear to be pulling for a Trump win, leading some to question whether it can be trusted to carry out its nonpartisan duty to protect people targeted for violence.


https://twitter.com/sarahkendzior/status/864347320460001281
	Bombshell: Initial Thoughts on the Washington Post’s Game-Changing Story http://www.lawfareblog.com/bombshell-initial-thoughts-washington-posts-game-changing-story … <-- Trump tells state secrets to Russians


https://twitter.com/sarahkendzior/status/859951648369766400
	The Steele dossier story was broken in Oct 2016 by David Corn, head of Mother Jones Washington bureau. That's a "low-level blogger"?


https://twitter.com/sarahkendzior/status/819581612480266240
	Intelligence sources vouch for credibility of Russia dossier author


https://twitter.com/sarahkendzior/status/847446100072181761
	BBC News - Trump Russia dossier key claim 'verified'


https://beta.theglobeandmail.com/opinion/comey-testimony-reveals-trump-is-running-america-like-a-crime-boss/article35252262/
	Comey testimony reveals Trump is running America like a crime boss
	Sarah Kendzior


There were, however, reports of unusual statistical anomalies in key swing-states:


https://econsnapshot.com/2016/12/06/electronic-voting-machines-and-the-election/
	It’s tough to draw precise conclusions as to what these correlations mean. It’s still possible that there are other factors driving our results, other than electronic voting. But, what we do know is that results in key swing states differ in counties with electronic voting. Further, the patterns in these counties are not exhibited by other similar but not electorally important counties across the country. Additionally, electronic voting had no impact in swing states during the 2012 election. Taken together, it seems tough to dismiss the correlations that we have found in the data. While we don’t know how to interpret the findings practically, it certainly lends credence to the efforts to initiate recounts in several of the swing states.


http://tdmsresearch.com/2016/11/10/2016-presidential-election-table/
	According to the exit polls conducted by Edison Research, Clinton won four key battleground states (NC, PA, WI, and FL) in the 2016 Presidential Election that she went on to lose in the computerized vote counts.  With these states Clinton wins the Electoral College with a count of 306 versus 232 for Trump. Clinton also won the national exit poll by 3.2% and won the national vote count by 2.1% or about three million votes.

	Exit polls were conducted in 28 states. In 22 states the discrepancies between the exit polls and the vote count favored Trump. In 12 of these states the discrepancies favoring Trump exceeded the margin of error of the state’s exit poll.


This was pretty disheartening, but I didn't stop. Since then, I have keeping up with the news, reading-up on active measures, finding and documenting Russia's propaganda and doing my best to figure out what they're up to and tell as many people as I can.

A part of what drives me is seeing the mismatch between the narrative on Russian meddling that the public is getting versus what historians, verified experts, and suspected Russian propagandists are actually saying. After the Cold War, a big part of the Soviet's strategy was to pretend like they are weaker than they actually are--a common refrain in their propaganda is "Russia has the economy the size of Italy! How can they be a threat?" But this theme permeates a lot of their propaganda (e.g. "why does the big mean U.S. pick on little Russia?"), especially the misinformation about their activities. They present Russia's attack to the public as just a new twist on their routine cyberspying on U.S. officials ("This time, they released it!"), as if Putin paid off a few geeks in the KGB's basement to hack the DNC's emails and a courier to carry them to Wikileaks. You can see it in the Steele Dossier--arranging a bungled meeting to figure out how Trump can make "deniable" payments to freelance hackers, Putin "sacking" his advisor after his (obvious) connections to Trump are exposed, Russia making dual-use of Trump to spy on Putin's oligarch buddies, and the FSB conducting ad-hoc foreign recruitment by lying in wait for Westerners to make business trips to Russia before somehow snaring them with blackmail. And then pundits on The Daily Beast wonder: how do we handle this new era of cyber warfare?

Just knowing about the illegals program from the spies arrested in 2010 casts suspicion on this whole narrative, and even trying a guess at its size is about enough to discredit it. Why have Micheal Cohen and Carter Page go back and forth with incriminating information between the Kremlin and the U.S. when you have a network of trained deep cover spies? Why bother making incriminating payments or orders to puppet like Trump, when you can build up a layer of trained agents of influence as his advisors?

And for that matter, why bother with hacking at all? If the Kremlin has deep-cover spies all over U.S. policymaking circles, it only takes one in the DNC to lift their emails to Wikileaks in a plausibly-deniable way (or better, to recruit an actual American to do it). And if they have the likes of I.F. Stone, Seymore Hersh, and Glenn Greenwald on their spy roster, they could pick from a menu of semi-famous journalists to use as the middleman, perhaps waiting to break the story that the Russian hacking story was a "hoax all along."

The beginning and end of the story of Russia's meddling that's presented to the public is that they spread some fake news on social media and hacked and released Hillary Clinton's emails, bringing connotations of a cheap and unsophisticated operation conducted almost entirely from Russia's soil. But if this is how the American public thinks of Russia's active measures, they're not going to guess if an article they're reading int New York Times is a Russian press placement, if an "expert" who's advice they follow is an agent of influence, or if the politician they support is working for a foreign government. And it distracts from the more insidious and sustained parts of active measures, like the promotion of racism (https://medium.com/@bb06/ideological-subversion-and-racism-f3d09421cf78) and other toxic worldviews. It's telling that U.S. officials need to point out that "Russia's meddling continues" in Congressional hearings--do people know how it continues? Why?

The public needs to know that active measures is more than just hacking and elections. Right now I'm pretty sure the U.S. Government knows the American people are under attack, directly, by a foreign power. It is a great disservice to not let them know. That's why I've been doing what I'm doing--almost everything people need to know is in the public domain already, you just need to bring it to people's attention.

That's why I've been unhappy with a lot of our Government officials, and at least a part of why I think some of them aren't loyal to the United States. We can do better than this:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	SPEIER: Thank you, Ranking Member. Thank you gentlemen for your service to our country.

	You know, I think it's really important as we sit here that we explain this to the American people in a way that they can understand it. Why are we talking about all of this? So my first question to each of you is, is Russia our adversary? Mr. Comey?

	COMEY: Yes.

	SPEIER: Mr. Rogers?

	ROGERS: Yes.

	SPEIER: Is -- do they intend to do us harm?

	ROGERS: They intend to ensure, I believe, that they gain advantage at our expense.

	SPEIER: Director Comey?

	COMEY: Yes, I wanna be -- harm can have many meetings. They're an adversary and so they wanna resist us, oppose us, undermine us, in lots of different ways.

	SPEIER: So one of the terms that we hear often is hybrid warfare. And I'd like to just stand give a short definition of what it is. It blends conventional warfare, irregular warfare and cyber warfare. The aggressor intends to avoid attribution or retribution.

	So would you say that Russia engaged in hybrid warfare in its effort to undermine our Democratic process and engage in our electoral process? Director Comey?

	COMEY: I don't think I would use the term warfare. I think you'd -- you'd wanna ask experts in the definition of war. They engaged in a multifaceted campaign of active measures to undermine our democracy and hurt one of the candidates and -- and hope to help one of the other candidates.

	ROGERS: I'd agree with the director.

	SPEIER: All right, well, thank you both. I actually think that their engagement was an act of war, an act of hybrid warfare and I think that's why the American people should be concerned about it.

	...LOBIONDO: OK. So very briefly the -- if you can describe the elements of the Russia's active measures in the campaign in the 2016 election. We've only got 35 seconds, but that's the first thing I want to get into about exactly what they were doing if you can tell us anything about that.

	ROGERS: So we saw cyber used, we saw the use of external media, we saw the use of disinformation, we saw the use of leaking of information, much of which was not altered.

	I mean, we saw several, if you will, common traits that we have both seen over time as well as I would argue that the difference this time was that the -- the cyber dimension and the fact that the release of so much information that they had extracted via cyber is a primary tool to try to drive an outcome.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	SASSE: When we talk about things like cyber investigations right now, so often on cable TV it becomes a shirts and skins exercise. So without asking you to comment about anything that's retrospective about 2016, do you think it's likely that in 2018 and beyond you're going to see more targeting of U.S. public discourse and elections?

	COMEY: I do. I think one of the lessons that particularly the Russians may have drawn from this is that this works. And so as I said last -- a month or so ago I expect to see them back in 2018, especially 2020.

	SASSE: You regularly testify -- and correct me if I've -- if I've misheard you but I think you've regularly testified that you don't think the Bureau is short of resources. You don't come before us and make big increased appropriations requests. And yet those of us who are very concerned about cyber look at the U.S. government writ large and think were not at all prepared for the future.

	Can you tell us what the FBI is doing to prepare for that 2018 and 2020 circumstance that you envision?

	COMEY: Without giving to much detail, we have a -- enormous part of the FBI in our counter intelligence division and in our cyber division that focuses on just that threat and making sure that we do everything that we can to understand how the bad guys might come at us. And as I talked about earlier to equip the civilian agencies that are responsible for hardening our infrastructure with all the information we have about how they're going to come at us.

	SASSE: And if you had international security domain increased resources, how would you spend another marginal dollar beyond what you expect to receive now?

	COMEY: I probably have a tie between investing more in upgrading our systems to make sure we're keeping pace with the bar of excellence. And probably to hire additional cyber agents and analysts.


http://www.newsweek.com/fbi-director-james-comey-russian-tampering-election-576417
	FBI Director James Comey attempted to go public as early as the summer of 2016 with information on Russia’s campaign to influence the U.S. presidential election, but Obama administration officials blocked him from doing so, two sources with knowledge of the matter tell Newsweek.

	Well before the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) accused the Russian government of tampering with the U.S. election in an October 7 statement, Comey pitched the idea of writing an op-ed about the Russian campaign during a meeting in the White House Situation Room in June or July.

	“He had a draft of it or an outline. He held up a piece of paper in a meeting and said, ‘I want to go forward. What do people think of this?’” says a source with knowledge of the meeting, which included Secretary of State John Kerry, Attorney General Loretta Lynch, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and National Security Adviser Susan Rice.

	But many in the room didn’t like the idea, and White House officials thought the announcement should be a coordinated message backed by multiple agencies, the source says. “An op-ed doesn’t have the same stature. It comes from one person.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/three-white-house-officials-tied-to-files-shared-with-house-intelligence-chairman/2017/03/30/de4b8c30-1589-11e7-9e4f-09aa75d3ec57_story.html
	Farkas, in an interview with The Post, said she “didn’t give anybody anything except advice,” was not a source for any stories and had nothing to leak. Noting that she left government in October 2015, she said, “I was just watching like anybody else, like a regular spectator” as initial reports of Russia contacts began to surface after the election.

	As a former staff member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and a former Defense official involved with Russian affairs, she said she “got worried” that the Obama White House was not briefing Congress on what it knew. “I know how the Russians operate,” she said, and called former colleagues to make sure Congress was being informed.


http://docs.house.gov/meetings/FA/FA00/20170309/105674/HHRG-115-FA00-Transcript-20170309.pdf
	UNDERMINING DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS AND SPLINTERING NATO: RUSSIAN DISINFORMATION AIMS

	HEARING

	BEFORE THE

	COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS
	HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

	...Prepared Testimony and Statement for the Record of

	Toomas Hendrik Ives

	...What are the mechanisms of this asymmetric cyber war?

	- Kompramat, is the Rssian term for publishing (real or fake) compromising materials on opponents;
	- hacking is breaking into servers and stealing data;
	- doxing, combines the two: to publish hacked documents to embarrass or harm opponents. The first large scale case of this were Wikileak's publication of some quarter million U.S. diplomatic cables in 2010, the most recent only this week the publication of CIA materials.
	- Finally there are *fake news*, an old propaganda trick but used far more effectively in the era of social media. KGB fake news in the 1980s of AIDS being invented by CIA had relatively little traction but today social media disseminates false stories with abandon.

	All of these have been combined in the past year as a pincer movement on democratic elections. Hacked private mail is doxed; it appears in social and later mainstream media, after which fake news content spin on these same revelations takes off and goes "viral." Buzzfeed reported that...


	...STATEMENT OF THE HONORABLE LINCOLN P. BLOOMFIELD, JR, CHAIRMAN EMERITUS AND DISTINGUISHED FELLOW

	What I would say is look at Russia’s recent history. For the last 20 or 30 years the trend has been toward open democratization around the world. We saw autocracies disappear in Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, Southeast Asia, Central Asia, the colored revolutions, starting with the Czech Republic and what happened in Poland years ago, and the fall of the Soviet Union, but then more recently in Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan, and Georgia. This, of course, alarmed Mr. Putin and his secret service colleagues who thought that they would lose the whole thing. So what did they do? They tightened down and they moved in a different direction. And I want the members to think about how not only Russia but China, Iran, and Syria, and perhaps others, are regimes that are going to try to stick around forever. They are trying to stay in power as one-party states. How do they do this? They do it by repressing their dissidents, by parking money in foreign banks so that they have assets, by controlling all security services, all the guns, and by censoring the media—that is extremely important.

	...Mr. ROHRABACHER. Well, here we are. Wherever you go, there you are. Let me just note that we just keep hearing sinister words after sinister words. Especially this last thing, oh, how sinister it is that he just showed the top of his passport. Give me a break. Come on. And, also, we got instead of a sinister report from your question to the Ambassador, no, it is not uncommon for people to meet with foreign Ambassadors and foreign diplomats. And how sinister is it that people met with a Russian Ambassador? I am sure that if they were going to plan something really rotten about the United States they would go to the Ambassador, the Russian Ambassador rather than some political operatives that they have running all over the place. This has, this has reached the absurd level of attacks. And let us note, that in order to get Russia, what we are now doing is destabilizing our own democratic system here with that kind of nonsense. I will have to say that during the Cold War, I want to remind everybody, I worked not only with President Reagan but my entire life was dedicated to defeating communism. I felt really great when Ronald Reagan helped us establish peace and the elimination of communism from Russia. We are now dealing with a national power. You know, it is a big power in the world. It is no longer being motivated by communist ideology that has it trying to overthrow democratic governments and replace them with atheistic communist dictatorships. 

	...Mr. SHERMAN. We are here today because this goes beyond a foreign policy issue. This is an issue for the core of America’s democracy. The key issue is did the Trump campaign collude with Russian hackers in the cyber burglary of the Democratic National Committee and related entities? 

	And a related question is whether Trump’s gratitude is pre-venting an appropriate response to Russia’s interference with democracy? Or whether his fear of what they might have on him is preventing that appropriate response? 


I know we can do better because we have before. Compare the above report from this year to this one from 1992:


http://intellit.muskingum.edu/russia_folder/pcw_era/sect_08a.htm
	Soviet Active Measures in the "Post-Cold War" Era 1988-1991

	A Report Prepared at the Request of the United States House of Representatives Committee on Appropriations by the United States Information Agency
	June 1992

	Executive Summary

	Active measures is a Soviet term that refers to the manipulative use of slogans, arguments, disinformation, and carefully selected true information, which the Soviets used to try to influence the attitudes and actions of foreign publics and governments. In addition to examining disinformation, this report looks at the Soviet use of conciliatory, alarmist, and derogatory slogans and arguments in order to illustrate the wide variety of manipulative messages and themes used in active measures operations.

	...Agents of Influence

	One of the most effective, most difficult to detect, and least understood areas of Soviet active measures is the use of agents of influence. Agents of influence are foreigners who have been recruited by the KGB in order to be used to influence the opinions of foreign publics and governments. Agents of influence are extremely useful because they are perceived as loyal patriots of their respective countries who are simply expressing their own personal opinions, not scripts written by the KGB and designed to dovetail with the current actions and priorities of Soviet foreign policy apparatus. The covert influence campaigns that they wage in public and private are not only the most difficult type of active measures operation to identify, but also potentially the most potent if the agent of influence is a senior government official or a respected public figure.

	In the June 6, 1992 issue of Human Events, Herbert Romerstein reported that "a retired high-ranking KGB officer with extensive knowledge about operations against the United States" had identified U.S. journalist I.F. Stone as a longtime Soviet agent of influence. Stone bitterly criticized the policies of the U.S. government for years in his influential private newsletter and other writings. 

	...The Conciliatory Slogans Of New Political Thinking

	In the minds of the Soviet "new thinkers," ending the Cold War did not mean that the systemic struggle between the "two social systems" would stop. Instead, it would shift from the Cold War arenas of the arms race, confrontation, and coercive diplomacy to new, primarily political areas of struggle. The Soviets needed to end the Cold War because their weak economy put them at an impossible disadvantage vis-a-vis an awakened West in an arms race which, if it continued, would mean their inevitable defeat. In order to avoid this and best preserve their power, the Soviet leaders needed to induce the West to abandon the arms race, while at the same time positioning themselves to wage a new form of political warfare against the West: one that sought to achieve power by conciliation rather than confrontation, the appeal of "all-human" values as opposed to "class" values, assigned a key role to the manipulation of international organizations, particularly the United Nations, and sought to use international law as a subterfuge for Soviet attempts to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries rather than the heavy hand of military power and coercive diplomacy.

	As part of the shift to "new thinking," the Soviets did the unthinkable. They deliberately jettisoned the outmoded ideology of communism and embraced a new ideology based on "all-human" values and concerns. They did not do this because they had become converts to the democratic cause. Instead, the Soviet "new thinkers" came to the conclusion that governments, countries, and peoples could be more effectively manipulated by universalist, non-Marxist concepts than by Marxist ones, and set about trying to devise ways to use non-Marxist concepts to achieve traditional Soviet goals. "New thinking" was consciously designed as a communist foreign policy for the post-communist era. It was as if the "chameleons," not the "doves," had triumphed over the "hawks" in the Soviet foreign policy debate.


And I know our government can certainly do better than this:


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP82-00047R000100520005-7.pdf
	Political Indoctrination in Rumania

	The feeling of Rumanian youths is generally favorable towards the US. The majority are anti-Soviet and do not believe the anti-US propagands. Most of the hope to be delivered from Soviet domination through a war between the US and the USSR.

	...The attitude of the Union of Working Youth (Uniunea Tineretului Muneitoreso - UTM) members was outwardly anti-US although only a small number were really Communist indoctrinated. The grammar school children were more likely to be anti-US due to the intensive indoctrination to which they were subjected. Some parents were careful not to let their children know they were listening to the Voice of America broadcasts for fear their children would report them to the authorities.


https://www.thecut.com/2014/02/over-half-kids-social-media-before-age-ten.html
	59 Percent of Tiny Children Use Social Media

	A new study from the safety advisory site Knowthenet finds that 59 percent of kids join social networks before the age of 10. Kidlets: The only consistent thing about them, through all of history, is that they grow up too fast.

	Yes, with their their chubby cheeks and their runny noses, they’re joining Facebook in hordes, setting up their very first social-media profiles. It’s the new rite of passage, isn’t it? Baby’s first profile picture. Baby’s first status update. Baby’s first ironic use of the “Like” button. Baby’s first change-in-relationship-status. Baby’s first subtweet.

	Opinium, which conducted the survey, included reports from over 1,000 parents of kids ages 8 to 16, and 1,000 kids ages 8 to 16. They found that most of these kids (52 percent) signed up for Facebook (despite the posted age restrictions). Other popular social-media sites included WhatsApp (40 percent), BBM (24 percent), and Snapchat (11 percent).


http://www.smh.com.au/world/fake-news-why-the-west-is-blind-to-russias-propaganda-today-20170123-gtxbuw.html
	Fake news: Why the West is blind to Russia's propaganda today

	Russia has skilfully exploited social media to divide the West and increase Moscow's power in Europe, the US and eventually Asia.

	The use of social media as a platform to divide democracies works, in part, because the strategy preys on a fundamental blind spot in open societies: the origin and volume of voices taking part in an online discussion.

	Western countries, inventors of the internet and social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter, tend to see discussion on social media as an open reflection of the public's views.

	That very openness means outside voices can weigh into debates – not to broaden the discussion, but to co-opt arguments and redirect them toward conclusions that undermine Western society and government.

	...This propaganda skews toward extremes, seeking to corrode the broad middle area of agreement needed for the functioning of liberal democracies, wherever they are found, including in the Asia-Pacific region.

	The speed and diffusion of propaganda on social media can create a 360-degree effect for users, so that what they perceive is not seen so much as a coherent ideological message but as the natural and growing consensus of the crowd.

	...Technology used in a certain way, in other words, can dramatically amplify the volume of an argument, view, voice or ideology.

	This was true, especially with groups like the "alt-right", Woolley said, which were effective in making themselves appear much more popular than they were in reality.

	Alt-right figures, in addition to promoting a racist world view, tend to parrot Russian views on global affairs, which itself is a feature of an internationalised movement.

	...Psychology

	At the same time, the focus of Russia's propaganda has changed from Soviet times, when it touted communism's material success and criticised the West's decadence.

	Today's Russian propaganda "is very adaptive and it does not limit itself to any ideological framework", senior editor Olga Irisova of the Russian affairs journal Intersection Project told Fairfax Media.

	This is true of the many voices over which it is carried, including state-backed broadcasters like Sputnik and RT which pride themselves on offering "alternatives" to traditional media. 

	This is a significant change from the time of the Cold War.

	"While during the Cold War it was more or less clear what narratives USSR propaganda charged with communist ideology would promote (capitalism versus communism as an alternative model for development; stories about how bad the life is for people in capitalist countries and how well the Soviet state cared for its people) ... the current Kremlin propaganda can promote almost any narrative that could undermine people's confidence in the liberal way of life," Irisova said.


https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-demographic-of-Pewdiepies-subscribers
	What is the demographic of Pewdiepie's subscribers?

	It is reported that PewDiePie's subscriber base is mostly young teenagers between the ages of 13 and 16

	...He attends to attract the much younger audience rather than the older audiences.


https://www.wired.com/2017/02/pewdiepie-racism-alt-right/
	YouTube star PewDiePie’s fall from grace riled up his 53 million subscribers, but unless you’re a Gen-Z videogamer, you may find the name splashed across many a headline this week unfamiliar. Lucky you. After The Wall Street Journal reported on his pattern of using anti-Semitic jokes in his videos, Disney’s Maker Studios cut ties with the internet celeb, and YouTube canceled the second season of his streaming reality show. People might applaud what look like swift measures, but the moves are long overdue.

	...Given the impossibility of knowing whether he means what he says, you can’t always know how to respond when he does something like, say, hire people to hold up a sign saying “Death to all Jews.”

	...But PewDiePie started racking up questionable jokes almost from the start of his YouTube career nearly seven years ago. Given that long tradition, and the fact he recently claimed that YouTube discriminates against him because he’s white, his fanbase goes beyond gamers. PewDiePie has become a bona fide white-supremacist hero.

	...In another let’s-play video, he mentions that he can’t see people when they’re “too black,” and fans mention that he’s been known to say that “black things” scare him.

	...This 2017 video, in which he decided whether he would “smash,” pass on, or sell particular people into slavery

	...In a jittery rant, he claimed that “YouTube wants my channel gone. They want someone else on top. They want someone really extremely cancerous, like Lilly Singh. I’m white. Can I make that comment? But I do think that’s a problem.”

	Singh—better known by her YouTube alias, Superwoman—is a Canadian-Indian rapper and comedian whose songs, parodies, and calls for positivity and #GirlLove have won her more than 11 million subscribers

	...Check out the banner leading neo-Nazi Andrew Anglin’s The Daily Stormer, which the Southern Poverty Law Center calls the top hate site in America.

	https://www.wired.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Screen-Shot-2017-02-14-at-1.34.51-PM-582x188.png

	The image has been up for weeks, says Heidi Beirich, director of the SPLC’s Intelligence Project. “With PewDiePie, the question is, How did it take them so long?” she says of Disney and YouTube dumping PewDiePie. “Neo-Nazis have been loving this guy. And because he has this massive following, they see those people as supporting their views.”


https://www.dailystormer.com/is-pewdiepie-racist/
	Is PewDiePie Racist?

	Daily Stormer

	And now, for the answer everyone has been looking for… Is PewDiePie an actual Nazi White supremacist?

	Only a scientific test will yield the truth of the matter.


http://www.zeit.de/politik/ausland/2016-09/russia-propaganda-eastern-ukraine-separatists-e-mails
	Cheerful Propaganda and Hate on Command

	The evidence of the extent to which Russia is engaging in psychological warfare against the West is now available in black and white. 


https://www.dailystormer.com/tag/pewdiepie/


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...dailystormer.com...


https://www.marchfortruth.info/
	Across the country, peaceful demonstrations will be arranged on Saturday, June 3rd.

	Our goals are simple:

	An independent commission must be established and Congressional investigations should be properly resourced and pursued free of partisan interests;

	As much information should be made available to the public as possible, and as soon as possible;


http://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2017/06/04/531439721/march-for-truth-protesters-demand-independent-russia-investigation
	March For Truth Protesters Demand Independent Russia Investigation 

	Thousands of protesters gathered around the country in a series of "March for Truth" rallies on Saturday. Demonstrators were calling for a congressional independent commission to investigate connections between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.

	In full view of the White House, protesters in Washington, D.C., demanded answers in the ongoing Russia probe. Chants of "Investigate Trump!" and "Resist, resist!" rang across the National Mall.

	Some protesters even lined up together to spell out "Investigate Trump."

	"I want to know what the ties are to Russia," said Atossa Shafaie, who joined protesters in the nation's capital. "I want to know how Russia has infiltrated our government. I don't think there's a question that they have."


https://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Awww.mcconnell.senate.gov+%22independent+commission%22&tbs=cdr%3A1%2Ccd_min%3A6%2F3%2F2017%2Ccd_max%3A6%2F12%2F2017


If our government won't tell us what the Russian government is doing to us, it's up to us to figure it out ourselves. It's especially important to do our best to figure out their strategies and what they're planning next--the better we predict their plans, the harder we make it to for them to carry them out:


https://archive.org/stream/GolitsynAnatoleTheNewLiesForOldOnes/Golitsyn-NewLiesForOld-TheCommunistStrategyOfDeceptionAndDisinformation1984_djvu.txt
	To counter communist strategy and regain the initiative for the West, a new Western strategy is needed, based on a true under- standing of the situation, policy, and strategic disinformation of the communist bloc. Without a clear appreciation of the deceptive nature of Sino-Soviet rivalry and of "liberalization" and splits in the communist world, Western governments, whatever their political complexion, cannot recover from the crisis in their foreign policy and are at risk of sliding into false alliances with one communist state against another. If possible, a moratorium should be imposed on any form of rapprochement with any member of the communist bloc while the reevaluation takes place. The publication could then follow of an allied defense document setting out calmly and clearly the agreed overall Western assessment of current communist bloc policy and the means being used to implement it. Public discussion of the findings would be encouraged by conferences of the Western governments, of political groupings such as the Socialist International, and of the leaders of the moderate, pro- Western Third World nations; parallel professional exchanges would take place between the Western intelligence and counterinteUigence services.

	The effect that an expose on this scale would have should not be underestimated. The communist bloc leaders and strategists would find, if the Western assessment were correct, that their next strategic offensives and moves in the deception plan had been preempted. The initiative would have been snatched from them. Their complicated political, diplomatic, and disinformation operations still in the pipeline would, if pursued, confirm the correctness of the Western assessment. The peoples of the communist bloc, the majority learning for the first time of the deceit on which their country's policy had been based, would — whatever their feelings about its morahty — realize that it would not work in the future and that their leaders had failed. While a communist regime remains successful, the people can be coerced into going along with it. It is when failure — or, at least, lack of new successes — sets in that, as was shown in Hungary and Poland in 1956, real and radical changes may happen. Exposure of a bankrupt policy would unleash powerful political pressures on communist leaders and on their re- gimes, parties, and governments, perhaps forcing them to change their conduct in international relations.

	It will be argued by faint hearts in the West that to proclaim publicly that the full significance of the communist threat is now recognized and that a realistic response is on its way is only to drive the communist leaders to an openly hard-line attitude and even to war. But does this argument stand up? If the threat has been correctly evaluated and properly explained, it will be clear to public opinion that, although disinformation may have concealed the intentions of communist policy, its line could scarcely have been harder.


This, among other reasons, might be why maskirovka is so important to them--it's hard to fool someone who knows your next move.

Last time I tried to guess what the Russians were going to do next, I got it dead wrong. But I think I am a little wiser now. That said, here's my best guess:

First: any attempt to impeach Trump they will milk for as many partisan squabbles as they can get away with. This pretty much a given--increasing political polarization (http://www.people-press.org/2014/06/12/political-polarization-in-the-american-public/) is basically a byproduct of active measures (just about any political scandal sparks partisan fighting, for example), and increasing polarization always hurts America. Supposedly, they had tried as much with Clinton's impeachment, although I haven't looked into that yet. Regardless, the current "Comey vs. Trump" set up is already polarized:


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/poll-americans-trust-james-comey-over-trump_us_593c4814e4b0b13f2c6b1b69
	POLL: Americans Trust James Comey Over Trump

	Views are deeply divided along political lines, although Trump’s doubters are notably more unified than his defenders. Seventy percent of Trump voters say they trust the president’s honesty more than Comey’s, while 89 percent of voters who supported Hillary Clinton put more faith in the former FBI director.


...

But most of all, you should expect the Okhrana to do anything they can to continue hiding and obfuscating their goals and methods. Active measures depends on deception to work--but the more their targets comprehend how they are being fooled (and that they are being fooled in the first place), the less power they have to wage war and influence the world. Their power derives from secrecy.

Or at least a kind of secrecy: Major recent declassifications have made public the scope and nature of Russian intelligence activities:


Venona papers declassified        - 1996

CIA Lin Piao reports declassified - 1999

Vassiliev notebooks declassified  - 2009

Illegals Program arrests          - 2010

Mitrokhin Archive declassified    - 2014


Between these disclosures we know much of FDR's administration (including his top advisor) were Soviet spies, multiple famous Western journalists and scientist worked for the Soviets, Mao Zedong and Al Gore were likely useful idiots, the KGB had at least thousands of foreign agents, and such agents still operate in "deep cover" today. These disclosures also give insight into how their active measures work.

For the most part, the Russians can no longer conceal the scope and nature of their operations--it's all in the public domain. But they can confuse, obfuscate, and manage the public perception of their operations:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	ROS-LEHTINEN: I'd like to ask you gentlemen if you could describe what, if anything, Russia did in this election that to your knowledge they did or they didn't do in previous elections, how -- how it was -- were their actions different in this election than -- than in previous ones.

	ROGERS: I'd say the biggest difference from my perspective was both the use of cyber, the hacking as a vehicle to physically gain access to information to extract that information and then to make it widely, publicly available without any alteration or change.

	COMEY: The only thing I'd add is they were unusually loud in their intervention. It's almost as if they didn't care that we knew what they were doing or that they wanted us to see what they were doing. It was very noisy, their intrusions in different institutions.

	ROS-LEHTINEN: And what specifically based on this loudness did the FBI or the NSA do to prevent or counter this Russian active measure that we read about in the intelligence community assessment? As loud as they were, what did we do to counter that?

	COMEY: Well, among other things, we alerted people who had been victims of intrusions to permit them to tighten their systems to see if they couldn't kick the Russian actors out. We also, as a government, supplied information to all the states so they could equip themselves to make sure there was no successful effort to affect the vote and there was none, as we said earlier.

	And then the government as a whole in October called it out. And I believe it was Director Clapper and then-secretary Jeh Johnson issued a statement saying this is what the Russians are doing, sort of an inoculation.

	ROS-LEHTINEN: And the loudness to which you refer, perhaps they were doing these kinds of actions previously in other elections but they were not doing it as loudly. What -- why do you think that they did not mind being loud and being found out?

	COMEY: I don't know the answer for sure. I think part -- their number one mission is to undermine the credibility of our entire democracy enterprise of this nation and so it might be that they wanted us to help them by telling people what they were doing.

	Their loudness, in a way, would be counting on us to amplify it by telling the American people what we saw and freaking people out about how the Russians might be undermining our elections successfully. And so that might have been part of their plan, I don't know for sure.

	ROGERS: I've -- I agree with Director Comey. I mean, a big difference to me in the past was while there was cyber activity, we never saw in previous presidential elections information being published on such a massive scale that had been illegally removed both from private individuals as well as organizations associated with the democratic process both inside the government and outside the government.


What's a reason for them to be "loud" with their hacking? To push into the mind's of the public at large that hacking is how the Russians operate. And what better way to be "loud" than hack and release the emails of a U.S. Presidential candidate in the middle of one of the craziest elections in history? 

You can see this same kind of "perception management" of their operations after the illegals arrested in 2010 (https://pastebin.com/r5PHGSnz). The spies' arrest sparked a minor media sensation--not because "deep-cover Russian spies are blending into American society and acting in inexplicable ways" but because "Anna Chapman is hot."

It amounts to "hiding in plain sight"--almost everybody has a vague notion that Russian spies were arrested in the U.S., but what people remember about it is Anna Chapman and her poses. Absolutely everybody knows Russia intervened in the U.S. election, but what they might end up remembering is that Russia did it with hacking. Everyone can have a general idea of what the Russians did (cultivate Trump, swing the election, spread propaganda, employ spies) but have the wrong idea about how (hire him as a spy, hack Clinton's emails and that's it, troll social media a little, recruit only ethnic Russians who travel to Russia), and Russia's methods are obfuscated.

Besides keeping Americans easier to fool for next time, it looks like obfuscating their methods has brought the Russians other benefits:


http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/01/10/u-s-public-says-russia-hacked-campaign/
	Democrats are also more likely to support the sanctions and actions taken against Russia as a response. Among those who have heard about the allegations, 51% of Democrats view the response as about right, while 37% say the sanctions and actions do not go far enough and just 7% say they go too far. By comparison, about a third of Republicans (35%) say the sanctions and actions against Russia go too far, while 39% say they are about right and just 17% say they do not go far enough.

	Overall, about one-in three Americans (29%) currently call Russia “an adversary” and an additional 44% consider it a “serious problem, but not an adversary”; just 24% say it is “not a problem.”


It's easier to forgive Russia if you think all they did is lift Clinton's emails to Wikileaks to settle a score, and so easier for Russia to get away with it politically. But if Americans were to learn Russia turned our media, politicians, or even vote machines against us, things might be different.

The Pew Research link shows another way the Russians can "hide in plain sight" by politicising their meddling itself. This election was the first time fewer Republicans were polled as seeing Russia as an adversary than Democrats (20% to 38% -- which was 39% to 19% three years earlier). The numbers aren't as important as the switch--a hint that Russia's meddling became politicized after the election. The danger comes from partisan motivated reasoning (https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/09/how-politics-breaks-our-brains-and-how-we-can-put-them-back-together/453315/), which clobbers a partisan's capacity to reason about politicized issues in general. A Republican might have trouble accepting that their favorite conservative website is Russian propaganda, for example, or a Democrat might dismiss that Russian intelligence prefers agents of influence over blackmail, as it would imply Trump is less likely to be guilty of a crime. Russia politicizing their meddling makes it harder for people to figure out how it works.

But probably the surest way Russian intelligence could hide their methods and goals is by silencing those who are in the best position to know them--the intelligence agencies of their adversaries. Western intelligence agencies--if not just about every other intelligence agency in the world--are probably angry enough by now that the Russians can't stop them from publishing more of their secrets (and arguably they could be faulted for not informing the world--how many lives could have been saved if the Chinese and Japanese suspected Zhang Zhizhong of trying to provoke a war, for example?). But if the Russians can't stop intelligence agencies from talking, they can try to stop the public at large from listening. Character assassination is a staple of active measures--if Russian intelligence can convince enough of the public that other intelligence agencies are scheming, lying, or incompetent (e.g. "These are the same people who said Saddam Hussein has weapons of mass destruction!"), those intelligence agencies are effectively silenced.

Western intelligence agencies have long got a bad-wrap in the press (although you shouldn't assume everybody who criticizes the CIA is a Russian spy):


https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/cia-magic-video-investigation-uri-geller
	That Time the CIA Investigated a Magician to See if Magic Was Real


https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/cia-fake-weed-hotbox-smelly-1970s-weedweek2017
	The CIA Created a Hotbox That Can't Get You High


http://www.nytimes.com/1976/08/05/archives/cia-considered-big-lsd-purchase-agency-data-disclose-1953-idea-to.html
	C.I.A. CONSIDERED BIG LSD PURCHASE


http://www.openculture.com/2014/12/ayn-rand-helped-the-fbi-identify-its-a-wonderful-life-as-communist-propaganda.html
	Ayn Rand Helped the FBI Identify It’s A Wonderful Life as Communist Propaganda


https://www.usatoday.com/videos/news/politics/2016/11/05/93316476/
	FBI investigating itself for dumping info so close to the election


https://thinkprogress.org/fbi-launches-internal-investigation-into-its-own-twitter-account-8d5fc2a81fdc
	FBI launches internal investigation into its own Twitter account


http://www.dailykos.com/story/2017/2/4/1629967/-Draft-plan-to-resurrect-CIA-s-secret-torture-dungeons-said-to-be-revised-because-of-broad-resistance
	Draft plan to resurrect CIA's secret torture dungeons said to be revised because of broad resistance

	By Meteor Blades


And, while it's not always clear what is active measures and what's not, it's pretty clear that Russia's active measures have been trying to weaken and discredit Western intel agencies:


https://www.infowars.com/why-the-cia-killed-kennedy/
	Why The CIA Killed Kennedy


https://stonecoldtruth.com/the-cias-legacy-of-lies/
	The CIA’s Legacy of Lies

	By Roger stone


https://www.infowars.com/nsa-whistleblower-spy-grid-is-part-of-world-govt-takeover/
	Top NSA Official: Spy Grid Helping Establish World Government

	...“Certainly it is population control, but not just of any given country – but of the world,” the whistleblower said. 

	...“And in order to do that they need to be able to control the people of the world. So in order to do that, you have to have knowledge of them to know who’s doing what so you can stop it, or manipulate it any way you want.”


http://www.npr.org/2015/03/31/395829446/after-snowden-the-nsa-faces-recruitment-challenge
	After Snowden, The NSA Faces Recruitment Challenge 

	"When I was a senior in high school I thought I would end up working for a defense contractor or the NSA itself," Swann says. Then, in 2013, NSA contractor Edward Snowden leaked a treasure-trove of top-secret documents. They showed that the agency's programs to collect intelligence were far more sweeping than Americans realized.

	After Snowden's revelations, Swann's thinking changed. The NSA's tactics, which include retaining data from American citizens, raise too many questions in his mind: "I can't see myself working there," he says, "partially because of these moral reasons."

	This year, the NSA needs to find 1,600 recruits.


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/17/us/politics/obama-putin-russia-hacking-us-elections.html
	Obama Confronts Complexity of Using a Mighty Cyberarsenal Against Russia


http://money.cnn.com/2016/12/16/technology/obama-us-vulnerable-to-hacking/index.html
	US more vulnerable to hacking than Russia, Obama says


http://www.abc.net.au/news/2013-06-24/snowden-flees-to-russia-avoiding-extradition/4775048
	Snowden flees to Russia, avoiding extradition


https://www.facebook.com/davidcnswanson/photos/pb.297768373319.-2207520000.1495135478./10155263180063320/?type=3
	David Swanson

	Who benefits most from blaming Putin for everything? This guy.


https://twitter.com/davidcnswanson/status/837734112144285697
	David Swanson
	
	Putin's trained dog finally identified

	R[ussia] T[oday]

	'She is being a guard dong' - Putin jokes as his pet barks at Japanese


https://www.counterpunch.org/2016/12/12/the-cia-never-ever-lies/
	The CIA Never Ever Lies

	by David Swanson 

	At moments like these, when every good responsible and enlightened liberal is recognizing the need to destroy the world in order to save it, by getting World War III started with Russia before Trump can move in and damage anything, I believe it is important to remember a few facts that will strengthen our resolve:

	The oligarch who owns the Washington Post has CIA contracts worth at least twice what he paid to buy the Washington Post, thus making the Washington Post the most reliable authority on the CIA we have ever, ever had.

	When the CIA concludes things in secret that are reported to the Washington Post by anonymous sources the reliability of the conclusions is heightened exponentially.

	Phrases like “individuals with connections to the Russian government” are simply shorthand for “Vladimir Putin” because the Washington Post has too much good taste to actually print that name.

	Claims to know extremely difficult things to know, like the motivations of said individuals, are essentially fact, given what we know of the CIA’s near perfect record over the decades.


https://www.counterpunch.org/2016/11/29/how-i-produce-fake-news-for-russia/
	How I Produce Fake News for Russia

	by David Swanson 

	Apparently I’ve written “fake news” on behalf of Russia


https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/2602813/furious-mi6-chiefs-slam-ex-officer-chris-steele-for-appalling-judgement-over-donald-trump-dodgy-dossier-scandal/
	'HE's AN IDIOT' Furious MI6 chiefs slam ex-officer Chris Steele for ‘appalling judgement’ over Donald Trump dodgy dossier scandal

	The foreign spy agency has told ministers their Russia operative showed “appalling judgement” over the incident.

	MI6 Chief Sir Alex Younger is said to be livid if it is true that he accepted a commission to dig dirt on a US politician from a Washington DC rivals.

	And one senior intelligence source branded the 53-year-old “an idiot.”

	The source told The Sun: “Chris should never have accepted this bit of work.

	“It was always going to come out at some stage, as was his involvement with it, and that is deeply embarrassing to the service.”

	Mr Steele’s former colleagues from MI6 – real name, the Secret Intelligence Service – also said he should have made it clear that there was no proof for the lurid accusations about Donald Trump’s twisted sex games with Moscow prostitutes.

	The source added: “There are hundreds of FSB guys running around the world at the moment saying all sorts of things, for all sorts of reasons”.


https://twitter.com/russianembassy/status/819525677175242752?lang=en
	Russian Embassy, UK

	Christopher Steele story: MI6 officers are never ex: briefing both ways - against Russia and US President


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_INFEKTION
	Operation INFEKTION was a KGB disinformation campaign to spread information that the United States invented HIV/AIDS as part of a biological weapons research project at Fort Detrick, Maryland. The Soviet Union used it to undermine the United States’ credibility, foster anti-Americanism, isolate America abroad, and create tensions between host countries and the U.S. over the presence of American military bases (which were often portrayed as the cause of AIDS outbreaks in local populations).

	According to U.S. State Department analysts, another reason the Soviet Union "promoted the AIDS disinformation may have been its attempt to distract international attention away from its own offensive biological warfare program, which [was monitored] for decades."

	...Claims that the CIA had sent "AIDS-oiled condoms" to other countries sprang up independently in the African press, well after the operation was started. In 1987, a book (Once Again About the CIA) was published by the Novosti Press Agency, with the quote:

		The CIA Directorate of Science and Technology is continuously modernizing its inventory of pathogenic preparations, bacteria and viruses and studying their effect on man in various parts of the world. To this end, the CIA uses American medical centers in foreign countries. A case in point was the Pakistani Medical Research Center in Lahore… set up in 1962 allegedly for combating malaria.

	The resulting public backlash eventually closed down the legitimate medical research center.


http://www.csmonitor.com/1985/0228/zdis.html
	As for forgeries, these have been used by the Soviets since soon after the 1917 revolution. The most elaborate in recent years was ``US Army Field Manual 30-31B,'' an entire manual that urged American officers to spy on their host countries and in some cases subvert their governments. The fake manual first appeared in Turkey in 1975. It was later circulated in some 20 countries to try to implicate the CIA in the Red Brigades' murder of Christian Democrat leader Aldo Moro in Italy in 1978.


http://www.nytimes.com/1981/07/21/opinion/kgb-disinformation.html
	K.G.B. DISINFORMATION

	The current concern in some Congressional and journalistic circles about Soviet ''disinformation'' activities in the United States news media rests upon a fundamental misunderstanding of the K.G.B. program.

	For more than 20 years, the Soviet Committee for State Security (K.G.B.) has secretly subsidized publications, planted rumors, and distributed forged documents as a minor but useful supplement to the large-scale anti-American propaganda campaign openly directed from Moscow.

	The most effective part of the K.G.B.'s work has been the fabrication of documents designed to provide the third world with hard ''evidence'' of America's hostile intentions. Most forgeries have had as their target the elites and semiliterate peoples of the Middle East, Africa, and Latin America. The publications have alleged a Central Intelligence Agency plan to unseat several Latin American regimes, a secret American commitment to Israel (for the Arab audience), assassination plots against the late President Sukarno of Indonesia (he was taken in) and President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt (he was not). 


https://twitter.com/cjcmichel/status/821510721347395584
	The KGB did, however, seek to cover its own tracks by circulating forged documents indicating that the CIA was involved with the FLQ. On September 24, 1971 the Montreal Star published a photocopy of a bogus CIA memorandum dated October 20, 1970:

		Subject Quebec. Sources advice that urgent action e taken to temporarily break contact with the FLQ militants since the Canadian government's measures may have undesirable consequences.

	Questions followed in the Canadian parliament. Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau declared that if the CIA was operating in Canada, it was "without the knowledge or consent of the government." Twenty years later the forged memorandum was still being quoted in Canadian publications, even by some academic authorities. Further forgeries suggested CIA involvement with Quebec extremists were circulated on the eve of the visit to Canada by President Nixon in 1972.


In the U.S., probably the largest and most successful campaign to discredit U.S. intelligence agencies came in the aftermath of the Watergate scandal. We should learn as much as we can from history, so a lot of the rest of this letter is on this topic.

In May 1973, Seymour Hersh revealed that the CIA had provided "material and research" assistance to the burglars who initiated the Watergate scandal:


http://www.nytimes.com/1973/05/07/archives/cushman-named-sources-say-general-acted-upon-request-by-ehrlichman.html
	CUSHMAN NAMED

	By SEYMOUR M. HERSH MAY 7, 1973 

	WASHINGTON, May 6—Gen, Robert E. Cushman Jr., the Marine Corps commandant who in 1971 was Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, authorized the use of Central Intelligence Agency material and research in the burglary of the office of Dr. Daniel Ellsberg's former psychiatrist, sources close to the Watergate case said today.

	...The New York Times reported today that Federal prosecutors in the Watergate case had summoned some officials of the C.I.A. to discuss that agency's role in the burglary. General Cushman apparently was among the first to be questioned on the agency's activity.

	...In his Senate confirmation hearings in February for the post in Iran, Mr. Helms declared that his agency had nothing to do with the bugging and wiretapping of the Democratic National Committee headquarters at the Watergate complex. He said he had “no control” over agency employes who had left. At least four members of the original Watergate break‐in team have said privately that they thought they were participating in a C.I.A. operation at two years, had ordered Dr. Melloy to cooperate with the White House. One source with close connections to the agency described many senior agency official as being “angry and depressed” over the new disclosures. “They feel that irreparable damage has been done by this to the C.I.A.,” the source said of the senior officials. “They think the whole project was an absolute violation of the C.I.A.'s charter.”

	The legality of the agency's, cooperation with Hunt and Liddy is questionable. The National Security Act of 1947, which set up the agency, expressly bars it from having any “police, subpoena, law‐enforcement powers or internal security functions.” 


Although later investigations revealed that Hersh kept key details from his story and misrepresented others:


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/DOC_0000497356.pdf
	c. The Washington Post, 8 May 1973, Page 1: "Rep. Lucien N. Nedzi (D., Mich.), chairman of an Armed Services subcommittee on the CIA, disclosed that the agency's director, James R. Schlesinger, confirmed to him yesterday that Marine Corps Commandant Robert E. Cushman Jr. authorized use of CIA equipment in the Ellsberg burglary case."

	...In the interest of factual accuracy regarding this important matter, and in fairness to General Cushman personally, I wish to point out that this Committee's investigation to date has produced no evidence whatsoever that either General Cushman or any other CIA official, had any knowledge or suspicion that the equipment and assistance requested on behalf of Mr. Hunt was for use in burglarizing the offices of Dr Ellsberg's psychiatrist, or for any other illegal purpose. On the contrary, CIA had no detailed knowledge of Mr. Hunt's activities but CIA officials apparently were under the impression that Mr. Hunt was engaged in investigating security leaks that were a major concern of the Government at that particular time. When Mr. Hunt's continued requests for assistance aroused the suspicions of Agency officers that he might be engaged in some improper or illegal activity, or activity beyond the Agency's authority or charter, it appears that General Cushman immediately terminated relations with Mr. Hunt and thereafter the Agency refused his requests for further assistance.


And it looks a lot like Hersh is a Russian propagandist (although I don't know if Hersh was as brazen back then):


https://www.rt.com/usa/375212-hersh-russian-hacking-propaganda/
	 Investigative journalist Seymour Hersh called the way US media have reported on the allegations that Russia somehow interfered in the 2016 US elections “outrageous.” The Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter said the “hectoring” press overlooked the real story.

	“The way they behaved on the Russia stuff was outrageous,” Hersh told The Intercept in an interview for Jeremy Scahill’s inaugural podcast. “They were hectoring. They didn’t do reporting.”


https://theintercept.com/2017/01/25/seymour-hersh-blasts-media-for-uncritically-promoting-russian-hacking-story/
	...According to the report, the NSA was said to have had a lower confidence level than James Clapper and the CIA about the conclusion that Russia intended to influence the election. Hersh characterized the report as full of assertions and thin on evidence.

	“It’s high camp stuff,” Hersh told The Intercept. “What does an assessment mean? It’s not a national intelligence estimate. If you had a real estimate, you would have five or six dissents. One time they said 17 agencies all agreed. Oh really? The Coast Guard and the Air Force — they all agreed on it? And it was outrageous and nobody did that story. An assessment is simply an opinion. If they had a fact, they’d give it to you. An assessment is just that. It’s a belief. And they’ve done it many times.”

	...In recent years, Hersh has been attacked for his investigative reports on a variety of policies and actions authorized by the Obama administration, but he has never backed down from his aggressive approach to journalism. His reporting on the raid that killed Osama bin Laden dramatically contradicted the administration’s story, and his investigation on the use of chemical weapons in Syria cast doubts on the official claim that Bashar al Assad ordered the attacks. 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-05-01/seymour-hersh-says-hillary-approved-sending-libyas-sarin-syrian-rebels
	Hersh also said that a secret agreement in 2012 was reached between the Obama Administration and the leaders of Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar, to set up a sarin gas attack and blame it on Assad so that the US could invade and overthrow Assad.


https://www.lrb.co.uk/v38/n01/seymour-m-hersh/military-to-military
	Seymour M. Hersh on US intelligence sharing in the Syrian war

	When it comes to tackling Islamic State, Russia and the US have much to offer each other. Many in the IS leadership and rank and file fought for more than a decade against Russia in the two Chechen wars that began in 1994, and the Putin government is heavily invested in combating Islamist terrorism.

	...A former White House adviser on Russian affairs told me that before 9/11 Putin ‘used to say to us: “We have the same nightmares about different places.” He was referring to his problems with the caliphate in Chechnya and our early issues with al-Qaida. These days, after the Metrojet bombing over Sinai and the massacres in Paris and elsewhere, it’s hard to avoid the conclusion that we actually have the same nightmares about the same places.’

	Yet the Obama administration continues to condemn Russia for its support of Assad. 

	...Putin’s bombing campaign provoked a series of anti-Russia articles in the American press. On 25 October, the New York Times reported, citing Obama administration officials, that Russian submarines and spy ships were ‘aggressively’ operating near the undersea cables that carry much of the world’s internet traffic – although, as the article went on to acknowledge, there was ‘no evidence yet’ of any Russian attempt actually to interfere with that traffic.

	...Economic sanctions, meanwhile, are still in effect against Russia for what a large number of Americans consider Putin’s war crimes in Ukraine


http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/31/world/middleeast/syria.html
	U.S. Releases Detailed Intelligence on Syrian Chemical Attack

	By DAVID JOLLY, SCOTT SAYARE and RICK GLADSTONEAUG. 30, 2013 

	PARIS — Seeking to move beyond Britain’s blindsiding rejection of military intervention in the Syrian conflict, the Obama administration received strong support from France on Friday and released a detailed intelligence summary to buttress its contention that the Syrian government used chemical munitions in an Aug. 21 attack, asserting for the first time that it had killed 1,429 people, nearly a third of them children.


https://www.lrb.co.uk/v36/n08/seymour-m-hersh/the-red-line-and-the-rat-line
	The Red Line and the Rat Line

	Seymour M. Hersh on Obama, Erdoğan and the Syrian rebels

	By the last days of August the president had given the Joint Chiefs a fixed deadline for the launch. ‘H hour was to begin no later than Monday morning [2 September], a massive assault to neutralise Assad,’ the former intelligence official said. So it was a surprise to many when during a speech in the White House Rose Garden on 31 August Obama said that the attack would be put on hold, and he would turn to Congress and put it to a vote.

	At this stage, Obama’s premise – that only the Syrian army was capable of deploying sarin – was unravelling. Within a few days of the 21 August attack, the former intelligence official told me, Russian military intelligence operatives had recovered samples of the chemical agent from Ghouta. They analysed it and passed it on to British military intelligence; this was the material sent to Porton Down. (A spokesperson for Porton Down said: ‘Many of the samples analysed in the UK tested positive for the nerve agent sarin.’ MI6 said that it doesn’t comment on intelligence matters.)

	The former intelligence official said the Russian who delivered the sample to the UK was ‘a good source – someone with access, knowledge and a record of being trustworthy’. 


https://scotthorton.org/interviews/040714-seymour-hersh/
	Scott Horton: … I think, well, it’s all over Twitter, anyway, that like, well yeah, you know, right, it’s a Russian sample so how can you believe it? But it seems to me from your reporting here that the UK and the US Governments didn’t have a problem with the Russian origin of the sample.

	Seymour Hersh: Oh my God, don’t forget, we and the Russians were pretty good allies in the 1990s. And when the chemical warfare treaty went into effect in 1997, we pooled information with the Russians. And I can also tell you, I write about this in my article, it certainly did come from a Russian. It was delivered by a Russian source who was described to me by an American as somebody really solid. Somebody we all knew, somebody we all trusted. This is not a game. We also had our own information about what was going on inside the Syrian arsenal. Believe me, the Syrian government would be more than happy to give a sample of any of it because they were eager to have this looked at. So that’s just, you know, only in America, it’s so funny, Scott, only in America, would you read that “Oh my God, Russia!” (laughs) The Cold War is still on. It can be very strange. Yes, the Russians supplied the sample. They picked up a sample right away, a lot of samples. The British had absolutely no trouble with the provenance. They knew it came from Damascus, the British analyzed it. It was the British finding out of Porton Down that convinced our army that we had to tell the President he doesn’t have a case. And I think, that if you want a run on with the Russians, go ahead.


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...zerohedge.com ... russia-insider.com...


http://russia-insider.com/en/behind-medias-assault-seymour-hersh/ri7297
	Ultimately, the bipartisan attack on Hersh shows the complete media conformity on US foreign policy, where Republicans, Democrats, and even “progressive” media have come to accept a governmental policy of never-ending war and mass surveillance. No questions asked.


Still, Director of Central Intelligence James Schlesinger and his deputy director of operations, William Colby, took the report very seriously--so seriously, in fact, that in a flash of zeal hot enough to "fire everyone if necessary," the CIA's leadership compiled a list of everything questionable or embarrassing the CIA had ever done:


http://spartacus-educational.com/JFKschlesingerJ.htm
	William Colby, Honorable Men: My Life in the CIA (1978)

	...But it was on my trip to Bangkok in early May of 1973 that I read in a newspaper the story that would radically shake up my life, and that of CIA. It was the story that reported that, during Daniel Ellsberg's trial for disclosing the Pentagon Papers, it had been revealed that the office of his psychiatrist, Dr. Lewis J. Fielding, had been broken into by Howard Hunt, using CIA equipment, in search of material that would then be turned over to CIA and from which CIA would prepare a"psychiatric profile" on Ellsberg for the White House. This was a shocker and I couldn't understand how I had never heard of it before, when I was supposed to have been in charge of assembling all the CIA material relevant to Watergate. But more disturbingly, I wondered how the news had hit Schlesinger; for I had assured him that I had told him the full story of CIA's relationship to Watergate on virtually the first day he had arrived at Langley.

	I didn't have to wait long after my return home to find Schlesinger's reaction. In a most moving vote of confidence in me, Schlesinger said he assumed that the news was as much of a surprise to me as it was to him. But then he went on to say that we would tear the place apart and "fire everyone if necessary," but we had to find out whether there were any other such questionable or illegal activities hidden in the secret recesses of the clandestine past that we didn't know about and that might explode at any time under our feet. To do this, Schlesinger said, he wanted to issue a directive to all CIA past and present employees, ordering them to come forward with any matter they knew of where the Agency had engaged in an activity outside its proper charter. With that directive, which he issued on May 9, the CIA "family jewels" were born, and led inexorably to a year of Congressional investigations and a whole new status for American intelligence.


Inevitably, the CIA's "family jewels" made its way to the press:


https://books.google.com/books?id=oM8u2198DcsC&pg=PT144
	When Schlesinger found out about the agency's ties to Watergate, he was enraged and threatened to "fire everyone if necessary." Schlesinger didn't want any more unseen land mines detonating under his feet. William Colby, Schlesinger's deputy director for operations, proposed that the DCI issue an agency-wide order directing anyone who had information about anything the CIA may have done outside its charter to come forth with the information. The order was distributed on May 9; in it, Colby instructed all agency employees with damming information to "call my secretary (extension 6363.)" That same day, Nixon appointed Schlesinger secretary of defense. Colby became DCI. Extension 6363 started ringing off the hook.

	Colby proceeded to do what spies are never, ever supposed to do. He made a list of secrets, taking the most sordid details of the agency's improprieties--facts that had been compartmented, made "need to know," "eyes only," and operations so black that there wasn't a paper trail at all--and put them all in one place. In the charged political atmosphere of the Watergate era, listing secrets was like stockpiling dynamite in a match factory.

	As the calls rolled in, Colby's list grew to 693 singled-spaced pages. CIA officers gave the sensitive file a nickname: the "Family Jewels." The dossier teemed with everything from the merely immoral to the downright inhuman, from petter improprieties to out-and-out felonies. The CIA had bugged and burgled Americans in their homes, put dissidents under illegal surveillance, and experimented on unwitting people with dangerous drugs. The NSA tapped countless Americans' phones. And then there were the assassination attempts: Lumumba in the Congo, Castro in Cuba, Trujilo in the Dominican Republic--incidents that the CIA was either directly involved with or far too close to. The stockpile of combustible secrets grew. On December 22, 1974, someone lit a match.

	HUGE CIA OPERATION REPORTED IN U.S. AGAINST ANTIWAR FORCES, OTHER DISSIDENTS IN NIXON YEARS, read the headline of the New York Times.


The CIA had been conducting illegal surveillance of U.S. persons suspected of working for the Soviets, including infiltrating activist organizations and opening mail between the U.S. and Soviet Union (
http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/vol2/html/ChurchV2_0029b.htm). But Hersh wasn't satisfied with calling out the CIA's program for being illegal--he tried to make its raison d'etre of Soviet infiltration look like a crazy excuse:


http://www.nytimes.com/1974/12/22/archives/huge-cia-operation-reported-in-u-s-against-antiwar-forces-other.html
	HUGE C.I.A. OPERATION REPORTED IN U.S. AGAINST ANTIWAR FORCES, OTHER DISSIDENTS IN NIXON YEARS

	By SEYMOUR M. HERSH DEC. 22, 1974 

	WASHINGTON, Dec. 21—The Central Intelligence Agency, directly violating its charter, conducted a massive, illegal domestic intelligence operation during the Nixon Administration against the antiwar movement and other dissident groups in the United States, according to well‐placed Government sources.

	An extensive investigation by The New York Times has established that intelligence files on at least 10,000 American citizens were maintained by a special unit of the C.I.A. that was reporting directly to Richard Helms, then the Director of Central Intelligence and now the Ambassador to Iran.

	In addition, the sources said, a check of the C.I.A.'s domestic files ordered last year by Mr. Helms's successor, James R. Schlesinger, produced evidence of dozens of other illegal activities by members of the C.I.A. inside the United States, beginning in the nineteen‐fifties, including break‐ins, wiretapping and the surreptitious inspection of mail.

	...Some sources also reported that there was widespread paper shredding at the agency shortly after Mr. Schlesinger began to crack down on the C.I.A.'s operations.

	Asked about that, however, Government officials said that they could “guarantee” that the domestic intelligence files were still intact.

	“There's certainly been no order to destroy them,” one official said:

	When confronted with the Times's Information about the C.I.A.'s domestic operations earlier this week, high‐ranking American intelligence officials confirmed its basic accuracy, but cautioned against drawing “unwarranted conclusions.”

	Espionage Feared

	Those officials, who insisted on not being quoted by name, contended that all of the C.I.A.'s domestic activities against American citizens were initiated in the belief that foreign governments and foreign espionage may have been involved.

	“Anything that we did was in the context of foreign counterintelligence and it was focused at foreign intelligence and foreign intelligence problems,” one official said.

	The official also said that the requirement to maintain files on American citizens emanated, in part, from the so‐called Huston plan. That plan, named for its author, Tom Charles Huston, a Presidential aide, was a White House project in 1970 calling for the use of such, illegal activities as burglaries and wiretapping to combat antiwar activities, and student turmoil that the White House believed was being “fomented” —as the Huston plan stated—by black extremists.

	...Professor Ransom said that his research of the Congressional debate at, the time the C.I.A. was set up makes clear that Congress expressed concern over any police state tactics and intended to avoid the possibility. Professor Ransom quoted one member as having Said during floor debate, “We don't want a Gestapo.”

	Beyond his briefings for Senator John C. Stennis, Democrat of Mississippi, and Representative Lucien N. Nedzi, Democrat of Michigan, the respective chairmen of the Senate and House Intelligence subcommittees of the Armed Services Committees, Mr. Colby apparently had not informed other Ford Administration officials as of yesterday of the C.I.A. problems.

	“Counterintelligence!” one high‐level Justice Department official exclaimed upon being given some details of the C.I.A.'s alleged domestic operations. “They're not supposed to have any counterintelligence in this country.”

	“Oh, my God,” he said, “oh my God.”

	...The Times's sources, who included men with access to first‐hand knowledge of the C.I.A.'s alleged domestic activities, took, sharp exception to the official suggestion that such activities were the result of legitimate counterintelligence needs.

	“Look, that's how it started,” one man said. “They were looking for evidence of foreign involvement in the antiwar movement. But that's not how it ended up. This just grew and mushroomed internally.”

	“Maybe they began with a Check on Fonda,” the source said, speaking hypothetically. “But then they began to check on her friends. They'd see her at an antiwar rally and take photographs. I think this was going on even before the Huston plan.

	‘Highly Coordinated’

	“This wasn't a series of isolated events. It was highly coordinated. People were targeted, information was collected on them, and it was all put on [computer] tape, just like the agency does with information about K.G.B. [Soviet] agents.

	...The official suggested that what he called the “Nixon antiwar hysteria” may hive been a major factor in the C.I.A.'s decision to begin maintaining domestic files on American citizens.

	...These junior officials are known to believe that the alleged domestic spying on antiwar activists originated as an ostensibly legitimate counterintelligence operation to determine whether the antiwar movement had been penetrated by foreign agents.

	In 1969 and 1970, the C.I.A. was asked by the White House to determine whether foreign governments were supplying undercover agents and funds to antiwar radicals and Black Panther groups in the United States. Those studies, conducted by C.I.A. officials who reportedly did not know of the alleged secret domestic intelligence activities, concluded that there was no evidence of foreign support.

	...He was repeatedly described by former C.I.A. officials as an unrelenting cold warrior who was convinced that the Soviet Union was playing a major role in the antiwar activities.

	One former high‐level C.I.A. official accused Mr. Angleton of a “spook mentality” who saw conspiracies everywhere. The official said that Mr. Angleton was convinced that many members of the press had ties to the Soviet Union and was suspicious of anyone who wrote anything friendly about the Soviet Union.

	...A Source In Moscow

	“The intelligence was not acquired in the United States,” Mr. Angleton declared, “it came from Moscow. Our source there is still active and still productive; the opposition. still doesn't know.”

	Mr. Angleton then described how the C.I.A. had obtained information from Communist sources about the alleged demolition training of black militants by the North Koreans. He also told of recent intelligence efforts involving the K.G.B. and Yasir Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization.

	A number of former important F.B.I. domestic intelligence sources took issue with Mr. Angelton's apparent suggestion that the domestic antiwar activity was linked to the Soviet Union.

	“There was a lot of stuff [on radicals in the United States] that came in from the C.I.A. overseas,” one former official recalled, but he said a lot of it was worthless.


	Amazement and Dismay

	Other officials closely involved with United States intelligence expressed amazement and dismay that the head of counterintelligence would make such random suggestions during a telephone conversation with a newsman.

	“You know,” said one member of Congress who is involved with the monitoring of C.I.A. activities, “that's even a better story than the domestic spying.”

	One former C.I.A. official who participated in the 1969 and 1970 White House‐directed studies of alleged foreign involvement in the antiwar movement said that Mr. Angleton “undoubtedly believes that foreign agents were behind the student movement, but he doesn't know what he's talking about.”


The way Hersh reported it, countering Soviet espionage was an excuse by the CIA to enact some kind of gestapo-style crackdown on antiwar activists and black nationalist dissidents. Counterintelligence chief James Angleton did an awful job of explaining what the Soviets were doing, and Hersh held him up for ridicule, even though what Angleton told him turned out to be true:


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terrorism_and_the_Soviet_Union#Support_for_terrorist_organizations
	The leader of the PLO, Yasser Arafat, established close collaboration with the Romanian Securitate service and the Soviet KGB in the beginning of the 1970s.[9] The secret training of PLO guerrillas was provided by the KGB.[10] However, the main KGB activities and arms shipments were channeled through Wadie Haddad of the DFLP organization, who usually stayed in a KGB dacha (BARVIKHA-1) during his visits to the Soviet Union. Led by Carlos the Jackal, a group of PFLP fighters accomplished a spectacular raid on the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries office in Vienna in 1975. Advance notice of this operation "was almost certainly" given to the KGB.[9]


https://books.google.com/books?id=5D00J6dykWQC&pg=PA80
	...Algeria never permitted the Party to set up a military training base as Cleaver had hoped.

	In July 1970, Elridge Cleaver, Kathleen Cleaver, and Elaine Brown, representing the Panthers, along with individuals from "the antiwar movement, the radical media the women's liberation movement, the Asian revolutionary group, and the Red Guard" would visit North Korea as well as North Vietnam and China.


http://apjjf.org/2015/13/12/Benjamin-Young/4303.html
	Juche in the United States: The Black Panther Party’s Relations with North Korea, 1969-1971

	In 1969, the Black Panther Party (BPP) established a relationship with the North Korean leadership that was based upon the principle of self-reliance (under the rubric of the Juche ideology), the transnational goal of Third World revolution, and a mutual antagonism toward American intervention around the world. Although the U.S. government forbade its citizens from travelling to North Korea, BPP leader Eldridge Cleaver along with other Panthers bypassed travel restrictions and visited North Korea to join anti-imperialist journalist conferences in 1969 and 1970. In North Korea, officially known as the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK), the Panthers found a new ideology and a government that was critical of the U.S. government. The Panthers established an alliance with North Korean leaders who they recognized as an independent force within the world communist movement.


https://books.google.com/books/about/The_Sword_and_the_Shield.html?id=9TWUAQ7Xof8C
	Having given up hope of influencing King, the Centre aimed instead at replacing him with a more radical and malleable leader. In August 1967 the Centre approved an operational plan by the deputy head of Service A, Yuri Modin, former controller of the Magnificent Five, to discredit King and his chief lieutenants by placing articles in the African press, which could then be reprinted in American newspapers,portraying King as an “Uncle Tom” who was secretly receiving government subsidies to tame the civil rights movement and prevent it threatening the Johnson administration. While leading freedom marches under the admiring glare of worldwide television, King was allegedly in close touch with the President. The same operational plan also contained a series of active measures designed to discredit US policy “on the Negro issue.” The Centre authorized Modin:

	- To organize, through the use of KGB residency resources in the US, the publication and distribution of brochures, pamphlets, leaflets and appeals denouncing the policy of the Johnson administration on the Negro question and exposing the brutal terrorist methods being used by the government to suppress the Negro rights movement.
	
	- To arrange, via available agent resources, for leading figures in the legal profession to make public statements discrediting the policy of the Johnson administration on the Negro question.

	- To forge and distribute through illegal channels a document showing that the John Birch Society, in conjunction with the Minuteman organization, is developing a plan for the physical elimination of leading figures in the Negro movement in the US.

	Service A sought to exploit the violent images of the long, hot summers which began in August 1965 with race riots in Watts, the black Los Angeles ghetto, which resulted in thirty-six deaths, left 1,032 injured and caused damage estimated at over 40 million dollars. The Centre seems to have hoped that as violence intensified King would be swept aside by black radicals such as Stokeley Carmichael, who told a meeting of Third World revolutionaries in Cuba in the summer of 1967, “We have a common enemy. Our struggle is to overthrow this system . . . We are moving into open guerrilla warfare in the United States.” Traveling on to North Vietnam, Carmichael declared in Hanoi, “We are not reformists . . . We are revolutionaries. We want to change the American system.

	King’s assassination on April 4, 1968 was quickly followed by the violence and rioting which the KGB had earlier blamed King for trying to prevent. Within a week riots had erupted in over a hundred cities, forty-six people had been killed, 3,500 injured and 20,000 arrested. To “Deke” DeLoach, it seemed that, “The nation was teetering on the brink of anarchy.” Henceforth, instead of dismissing King as an Uncle Tom, Service A portrayed him as a martyr of the black liberation movement and spread conspiracy theories alleging that his murder had been planned by white racists with the connivance of the authorities.’

	Simultaneously the Centre implemented a series of active measures designed to weaken the internal cohesion of the United States and undermine its international reputation by inciting race hatred. In 1971 Andropov personally approved the fabrication of pamphlets full of racist insults purporting to come from the extremist Jewish Defense League, headed by Meir Kahane, calling for a campaign against the “black mongrels” who, it was claimed, were attacking Jews and looting Jewish shops. Thirty pamphlets were mailed to a series of militant black groups in the hope of producing “mass disorders in New York.” At the same time forged letters were sent to sixty black organizations giving fictitious details of atrocities committed by the League against blacks and calling for vengeance against Kahane and his chief lieutenants. Probably to the Centre’s disappointment, Kahane was assassinated some years later, not by a black militant but by an Arab.

	On at least one occasion, the Centre ordered the use of explosives to exacerbate racial tensions in New York. On July 25, 1971 the head of the FCD First (North American) Department, Anatoli Tikhonovich Kireyev, instructed the New York residency to proceed with operation PANDORA: the planting of a delayed-action explosive package in “the Negro section of New York.” Kireyev’s preferred target was “one of the Negro colleges.” After the explosion the residency was ordered to make anonymous telephone calls to two or three black organizations, claiming that the explosion was the work of the Jewish Defense League.

	The attempt to stir up racial tensions in the United States remained part of Service A’s stock-in-trade for the remainder of the Cold War. Before the Los Angeles Olympics in 1984, for example, Line PR officers in the Washington residency mailed bogus communications from the Ku Klux Klan to the Olympic
committees of African and Asian countries.89 Among the racial taunts devised by Service A for inclusion in the mailings was the following:

		THE OLYMPICS-FOR THE WHITES ONLY!
		African monkeys!
		A grand reception awaits you in Los Angeles!
		We are preparing for the Olympic games by shooting at black moving targets.
		In Los Angeles our own Olympic flames are ready to incinerate you.
		The highest award for a true American patriot would be the lynching of an African monkey.
		Blacks, Welcome to the Olympic games in Los Angeles!
		We’ll give you a reception you’ll never forget!

	This and other active measures on the same theme made front-page news in many countries. When Attorney-General William French Smith denounced the letters as KGB forgeries, Moscow predictably feigned righteous indignation at Washington’s anti-Soviet slanders.


https://books.google.com/books/about/The_Sword_and_the_Shield.html?id=9TWUAQ7Xof8C
	The Centre’s confidence that it now possessed a nerve-hold on Western public opinion was reflected in the first three priorities which it laid down for active measures in 1984, the year before Gorbachev became Soviet leader:

	- counteracting attempts by the USA and NATO to destroy the existing military strategic equilibrium and to acquire military superiority over the USSR compromising the aggressive efforts of imperialist groups and their plans for preparing a nuclear missile war . . .

	- deepening disagreements inside NATO . . .

	- exposing before the international community the plans made by the USA to launch a war, its refusal to negotiate in good faith with the USSR on limiting armaments; stimulating further development of the anti-war and anti-missile movements in the West, involving in them influential political and public figures and broad strata of the population, and encouraging these movements to take more decisive and coordinated action


On top of that, Hersh tied the CIA's program with the deeply unpopular Nixon and the Watergate scandal. Nixon had put to writing his desires to spy on students, "radicals," and anti-war dissidents in the infamous Huston plan, which assigned a "Nixonian" (for lack of a better word) motive to the USIC's counterintelligence activities. Although U.S. intelligence had been spying on Soviet "activists" since long before Nixon, Hersh wasted no time in pinning the whole thing on a paranoid, politically-motivated Nixon administration:


http://www.nytimes.com/1974/12/22/archives/huge-cia-operation-reported-in-u-s-against-antiwar-forces-other.html
	...The disclosure of alleged illegal, C.I.A. activities is the first, possible connection to rumors that have been circulating in Washington for some time. A number of mysterious burglaries and incidents have come to light since the breakin at Democratic party headquarters in the Watergate complex on June 17, 1972.

	Duping Charged

	Throughout the public hearings and courtroom testimony on Watergate, Mr. Helms and other high‐level officials said that the C.I.A. had been “duped” into its Watergate involvement by the White House.

	As part of its alleged effort against dissident Americans in the late nineteen‐sixties had early nineteen‐seventies, The Time's sources said, the C.I.A. authorized agents, to follow and photograph participants in antiwar and other demonstrations. The C.I.A. also set up a network of informants who were ordered to penetrate antiwar groups, the sources said.

	At least one avowedly antiwar member of Congress was among those placed under surveillance by the C.I.A., the sources said. Other members of Congress were said to be included in the C.I.A.'s dossier on dissident Americans.

	...Two months ago, Rolling Stone magazine published a lengthy list of more than a dozen unsolved break‐ins and burglaries and suggested that they might be linked to as yet undisclosed C.I.A. or F.B.I. activities.

	Senator Howard H. Baker Jr., Republican of Tennessee, who was vice chairman of the Senate Watergate committee, has publicly spoken of mysterious C.I.A. links to Watergate, The White House transcripts of June 23, 1972, show President Nixon saying to H. R.‐Haldeman, his chief of staff, “Well, we protected Helms from one hell of a lot of things.”

	The remark, commented upon by many officials during recent interviews, could indicate Presidential knowledge about the C.I.A.'s alleged domestic activities.

	The possible Watergate link is but one of many questions posed by the disclosures about the C.I,A. that the Times sources say they believe can be unraveled only by extensive Congressional hearings.


This was a critical moment for America: the country had been rocked by the social movements of the 60's and 70's and increasingly bitter opposition to the Vietnam war, the Pentagon papers and the Watergate scandal had put trust in the Government at a historic low, and now it was revealed that the U.S. Government was spying on the very activists that opposed these unpopular policies and politicians. At the same time many Americans, perhaps for the first time, were hearing claims by some in the nation's intelligence services that the Soviets had a hand in this domestic turmoil.

This should have been a time for the American people to debate some very important questions: How should we, as a nation, counter foreign intelligence services while keeping our own in check? What lengths are acceptable for our intelligence agencies to go in countering foreign agents on American soil? How do we keep a system of governance that protects us both from tyranny by our own government and tyranny from governments abroad?

But the American people never got the chance: The idea of Soviet intervention in U.S. domestic affairs had been mocked and politicized in the press, trust in U.S. military and intelligence agencies had been dragged down with trust in the Nixon administration, and the American people, maybe weary of conflict, were hopeful that the Soviet threat had been solved by détente:


http://www.nytimes.com/1970/07/10/archives/communist-rules-for-revolt-viewed-as-durable-fraud-rules-for.html
	Communist ‘Rules’ For Revolt Viewed As Durable Fraud

	By DONALD JANSON JULY 10, 1970

	Among a spate of broad sides, leaflets and ultraconservative books distributed at the New England Rally for God, Family and Country, which ended earlier this week in Boston, was a stack of flyers labeled “Communist Rules for Revolution.”

	The “rules” call for corrupting the young by stressing sex to the exclusion of moral virtues, fomenting disorder and dissatisfaction with government, legislating gun control and seizing power.

	...The same list has been re produced in right‐wing publications, small‐town newspaper advertisements and gun lobby magazines for a quarter of a century. Group Research, a Washington organization, re ports a spurt in recent months.

	...‘Completely Spurious’

	Senator Lee Metcalf, Democrat of Montana, said in an interview that exhaustive re search had proved the “rules for revolution” to be “completely spurious.”

	“The extreme right wing in America also follows rules,” he said earlier in placing his findings in The Congressional Record, “and one of these rules is to make maximum use of false, misleading and fear inspiring quotations.”

	...Since then, numerous ultra conservative publications have reproduced the “rules” with the Brautigam statement and his signature appended. The Rev. Billy James Hargis devoted the cover of Christian Crusade to this combination a decade later.

	...Those who have listed the “rules” in The Congressional Record this year include Representatives John J. Duncan of Tennessee, Joe Skubitz of Kansas and Louis C. Wyman of New Hampshire.

	‘To Protect Our Country’

	Mr. Duncan commented, in doing so, that “I became alarmed as I reviewed these and realized how effective they are right now in this great country of ours.”

	“We see the results taking place our society,” he said, “and it is our duty to warn our constituency and to protect our country.”

	...Equally popular in right‐wing circles, according to Mr. George of Central State College it Oklahoma, are more than dozen misquotations of Communist leaders.

	He said purveyors of fear frequently quote Nikita S. Khrushchev's remark while in the United States in 1959 that “we will bury you,” but never add that he meant economically.


(note: https://archive.org/stream/BezmenovLoveLetterToAmerica/YuriBezmenov-LoveLetterToAmerica_djvu.txt the document likely is a forgery, although it is pretty accurate in describing some goals/methods of active measures. An interesting question is: forgery by who?)


http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/1972/01/22/i-coverup
	Coverup—I

	By Seymour M. Hersh

	January 22, 1972

	Over the past eighteen months, I have been provided with a complete transcript of the testimony given to the Peers Inquiry, and also with volumes of other materials the Peers commission assembled, including its final summary report to Secretary Resor and General Westmoreland. What follows is based largely on those papers, although I have supplemented them with documents from various sources, including the Army’s Criminal Investigation Division, which had the main responsibility for conducting the initial investigations into both the My Lai massacre and its coverup.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentagon_Papers
	President Nixon's first reaction to the publication was that, since the study embarrassed the Johnson and Kennedy administrations rather than his, he should do nothing. However, Kissinger convinced the president that not opposing the publication set a negative precedent for future secrets. The administration argued Ellsberg and Russo were guilty of a felony under the Espionage Act of 1917, because they had no authority to publish classified documents. After failing to persuade the Times to cease voluntarily publication on June 14, Attorney General John N. Mitchell and Nixon obtained a federal court injunction forcing the Times to cease publication...


http://www.ifstone.org/collectedifstone.pdf
	The Crisis Coming for a Free Press

	I.F. Stone

	July 9, 1971

	...A government cannot be denied the right to some secrets, especially in wartime. But what makes this case so crucial is that Dr. Ellsberg’s leak and its publication in the press represented the first open revolt against a system of secrecy which has reached cancerous proportions and threatens unless checked to destroy free government itself. The amount of information now stamped secret and withheld from the press and Congress is staggering. 

	...The Pentagon Papers showed that the government has been carrying on secret warfare in Indo-China since 1954. They disclosed for the first time the full dimensions of the arrogance, duplicity and inhumanity with which successive Administrations got us into this horrible mess which is tearing the country apart and demoralizing the armed forces themselves.

	...Representative government is menaced today by a cloud of secrecy. The Daniel Ellsbergs and Neil Sheehans are too few; a Senator like Gravel willing to challenge the classification system in which Congress has acquiesced for so many years, is unique. We need more such rebels, not fewer, if free government is to survive.


(background on Stone, previously mentioned: http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/jcws.2009.11.3.144)


http://www.ifstone.org/collectedifstone.pdf
	Fresh Light on the Mystery of the Missiles

	I.F. Stone

	1963

	The removal of the missiles stirred anger among the Fidelistas, and I was told that Fidel had gone several times to the University to appeal to the students to be quiet. Cubans made up a little poem which went like this:

		Nikita, Nikita,
		Lo que se da,
		No se quita

	i.e., Nikita, Nikita, what you gave, you can’t take back. In the eyes of the Fidelistas, the purpose of the missiles was simply to deter an American attack; they turned against us our own favorite theory of deterrence.

	...The political questions were as delicate as the military. The Russians had agreed to remove the missiles without consulting Castro. For a man—and a people—as sensitive about their national dignity, this was an affront. An island besieged by the United States, and so dependent on the U.S.S.R., could hardly afford open discussion of such questions.

	...As for the Russians, their friendliness for Cuba in no way interferes with their obvious desire for friendlier relations with the United States. These talks in Havana showed me that wherever American policy was to some degree flexible and pragmatic, rather than rigidly ideological, this paid off.

	...One way to look at the recent crisis is that we were brought to the brink of thermonuclear war because we had driven an island neighbor so far into fear and enmity that it was willing to emplace nuclear missiles against us.

	Every time we are confronted with a new revolution we take to the opium pipes of our own propaganda. Those who try to be objective or friendly are dismissed as dupes, and sometimes—as the Stalin years demonstrate—they were. But events have also shown that in the long run the dupes prove less misleading than the doped.


https://books.google.com/books?id=-ZiMFkQ1hjkC&pg=PA145
	His rhetoric, spurred by the support of the Soviet Union and the increasingly socialist leanings of Castro, became even more radical. In a particularly chilling speech to the First Latin American Youth Congress in late July 1960, Che saw it fit to speak of Cuba as a whole, saying that "if they [the Cuban people] should disappear from the face of the earth because an atomic war is unleashed in their names ... they would feel completely happy and fulfilled ..." The threat of atomic annihilation would soon be a very real one--not just for Cuba, but in essence, the world.


http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/inatl/longterm/summit/archive/com1972-1.htm
	Joint Communiqué, Moscow, 1972

	Guided by the desire to place U.S.-Soviet relations on a more stable and constructive foundation, and mindful of their responsibilities for maintaining world peace and for facilitating the relaxation of international tension, the two Sides adopted a document entitled: "Basic Principles of Mutual Relations between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics," signed on behalf of the U.S. by President Nixon and on behalf of the U.S.S.R. by General Secretary Brezhnev.

	...Both Sides are also convinced that the agreement on Measures to Reduce the Risk of Outbreak of Nuclear War Between the USA and the U.S.S.R., signed in Washington on September 30, 1971, serves the interests not only of the Soviet and American peoples, but of all mankind. 


http://www.nybooks.com/articles/1973/10/18/the-sakharov-campaign/
	The Sakharov Campaign
	I.F. Stone	
	October 18, 1973 Issue

	Andrei Sakharov is no enemy of détente. On the contrary, complete and genuine détente, ideological as well as political coexistence, has been one of the two objectives of the extraordinary campaign he has been waging since 1968.


https://www.jstor.org/stable/2749027?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents
	The polls: American Attitudes Toward the Soviet Union and Communism

	1983

	During the first half of the 1970s détente warmed Soviet-American relations. A series of major treaties from the SALT I accords in 1972 to the Helsinki Agreements in July 1975 raised the promise of peaceful coexistence and normalized relations. Since then Soviet-American relations have chilled in the face of the huge Soviet arms buildup, Russian-Cuban adventurism in Africa, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and Communist repression in Poland, and commentators are talking of a second cold war.


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/97unclass/colby.html
	...By that time, mid-1973, public attitudes with respect to US intelligence had begun to shift, and some past practices, particularly those relating to covert operations, no longer enjoyed wide support. Rightly or wrongly, a certain euphoria about détente signified to many that there was now a less overriding need for continuing covert operations as a ready, effective weapon in our country's Cold War arsenal. Public support waned further when Colby himself confirmed existing suspicions about certain past CIA practices. Public dismay about Watergate had rubbed off on CIA as well, in light of the many allegations that the Agency had been involved in that scandal. 


The public didn't get a chance or didn't want to hear about Soviet active measures--they were more angry at the CIA. In the critical debate for the nation's future, Americans only got to hear one side of the story. Schlesinger and Colby did little to help:


https://www.commentarymagazine.com/articles/the-war-within-the-cia/
	How had the “family jewels” ever leaked to the New York Times in the first place? This was a question put to Colby in 1975 by Richard M. Helms, himself a former Director of the CIA. According to Helms’s recollection of their conversation, Colby nonchalantly replied, “I talked to Sy Hersh.” At the time, Helms did not fully comprehend what Colby meant by this admission. It seemed almost inconceivable to him that the Director of the CIA, whom he had always found to be an intelligent, discreet, and completely responsible officer, and who had sworn an oath to protect the nation’s secrets, could have revealed such critical information to a newspaperman for purposes of publication. Yet the next time Helms saw Colby, he again asked him about the leak and Colby reiterated that he had confirmed the story to Hersh and the New York Times.

	That it was Colby himself who had engineered the leak had also become clear in the meantime to members of the CIA’s counterintelligence staff who had been forced to resign on account of it. Newton S. Miler, then Chief of Operations for Counterintelligence, discovered that Colby’s report to the President had been prepared within a day of the story’s appearance in the Times. Analyzing the research that had gone into the document, he concluded that Colby could not possibly have written it within such a brief period.

	...In the interview, Colby asserts, he attempted to “explain—and put in proper perspective” both the CIA’s investigation of the anti-war movement in the United States and the CIA’s surveillance of American citizens by “wiretaps, mail intercepts,” and other means. He acknowledges confirming to Hersh that the CIA had, in the case of the mail intercepts, sometimes violated its charter (and the law). He provided Hersh with incriminating details about the CIA’s program of intercepting letters to and from the Soviet Union, and about other highly-classified and illegal surveillance activities.

	Colby says that he did not realize the public release of this information would have the “traumatic consequences” it did. The only reason he told Hersh about it, he writes, was to lay to rest rumors which Hersh had heard of even more incriminating activities on the part of the CIA. 


http://www.nytimes.com/1974/12/22/archives/huge-cia-operation-reported-in-u-s-against-antiwar-forces-other.html
	By SEYMOUR M. HERSH DEC. 22, 1974 

	Mr. Colby has reportedly told associates that he is considering the possibility of asking the Attorney General to institute legal action against some of those who had been involved in the alleged domestic activities.

	...Mr. Colby refused comment on the domestic spying issue. But one clue to the depth of his feelings emerged during an off‐the‐record talk he gave Monday night at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York.

	The C.I.A. chief, who had been informed the previous week of the inquiry by The Times, said at the meeting that he had ordered a complete investigation of the agency's domestic activities and had found some improprieties.

	But he is known to have added, “I think family skeletons are best left where they are—in the closet.”


http://www.nytimes.com/1975/10/16/archives/colby-concedes-cia-failed-to-report-watergate-promptly.html
	Colby Concedes C.I.A. Failed To Report Watergate Promptly

 	SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES OCT. 16, 1975 


https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1979/08/inside-the-department-of-dirty-tricks/305460/
	 Schlesinger did not remain long at the CIA; On May 9, 1973, Nixon appointed him to replace Elliot Richardson at the Department of Defense, who was replacing Richard Kleindienst at the Department of Justice, who was resigning because his old friend John Mitchell was finally facing indictment for his role in the Watergate scandal. But during Schlesinger's brief tenure as DCI, the shortest in the Agency's history, he fired more than a thousand officers throughout the Agency, more than a hundred of them old soldiers in the DDP/DDO.

	The firings came in waves: If the pace wasn't brisk enough, he would do the job himself, going down a list of officers and saying, "He's been here twenty years that's long enough, out." 


http://www.nytimes.com/1974/12/22/archives/huge-cia-operation-reported-in-u-s-against-antiwar-forces-other.html
	By SEYMOUR M. HERSH DEC. 22, 1974 

	...Mr. Schlesinger was at the C.I.A. when the first word of the agency's involvement in the September, 1971, burglary of the office of Dr. Daniel Ellsberg's former psychiatrist by the White House security force known as the “plumbers” became known.

	...The associate said one result of Mr. Schlesinger's inquiries into Watergate and the domestic of the C.I.A. operations was his executive edict ordering a halt to all questionable counterintelligence operations inside the United States.

	During his short stay at the C.I.A., Mr. Schlesinger also initiated a 10 per cent employee cutback. Because of his actions, the associate said, security officials at the agency decided to increase the number of his personal bodyguards. It could not be learned whether that action was taken after a threat.


https://www.commentarymagazine.com/articles/the-war-within-the-cia/
	The Hersh story was based on a closely-held CIA report done the previous year by the Inspector General, which was a compilation of all the CIA’s questionable activities prior to 1973 and which was termed by Colby the “family jewels.”

	Within forty-eight hours of publication of the Times exposé, Colby effectively confirmed the veracity of the story by announcing the resignation of James Jesus Angleton, the CIA’s chief of counterintelligence, who had been mentioned in Hersh’s report, as well as Angleton’s three top deputies on the counterintelligence staff;


http://www.nytimes.com/1974/12/30/archives/3-more-aides-quit-in-cia-shakeup-faced-transfers-special-to-the-new.html
	3 MORE AIDES QUIT IN C.I.A. SHAKE‐UP; FACED TRANSFERS

	By SEYMOUR M. HERSH DEC. 30, 1974

	Three more high‐ranking officials of the Central Intelligence Agency resigned last week in a major shake‐up of the agency's counterintelligence division, well‐informed Government sources said today.

	...In a related development, Senator William Proxmire, Democrat of Wisconsin, said today that he had received independent verification of the allegations of C.I.A. domestic spying that were initially published Dec. 22 in the Times. There has been no official denial or confirmation of The Times's account from the Ford Administration.

	“I can say on the basis of the information I have, and I think it is very good Information,” Mr. Proxmire said on “Issues and Answers,” the ABC‐TV interview show, “that the stories and the allegations in The New York Times about the file of 10,000 names of people who had been under investigation by the C.I.A., about the surveillance, about the breaking and entering and about wiretaps, that those are accurate and correct.”


http://www.nytimes.com/1987/05/12/obituaries/james-angleton-counterintelligence-figure-dies.html
	Mr. Angleton ... was forced to resign his post in 1974 by William E. Colby, then Director of Central Intelligence, who had become convinced that Mr. Angleton's efforts were harming the agency. 

	...With his departure, the agency cut the counterintelligence staff to 80 from 300, and turned away from some of the techniques he had pioneered. Today, some intelligence officials and members of Congress say this may have been an overreaction. They say that the recent disclosures about highly damaging Soviet espionage operations suggest that Mr. Angleton was more accurate in his suspicions than was once believed


http://www.nytimes.com/1987/04/10/us/washington-talk-a-counter-spymaster-s-view-assessing-intelligence-breaches.html
	At its peak in the 1960's, he tells friends, the counterintelligence directorate had a staff of 300. In the reductions sought by Mr. Colby, the staff went from 280 to 80, terminating many of its operations and virtually paralyzing those remaining. "It's never been built up again," he said.


CIA director Colby had compiled a list of the CIA's darkest secrets, leaked them to a likely Soviet agent, then began firing most of the CIA's counterintelligence staff a few days later, crippling U.S. defense against spies and giving the impression the CIA was guilty of the skewed charges in Hersh's report.

For the CIA, it was a bloodbath. Colby and Congress took it even further:


https://www.maryferrell.org/pages/Post-Watergate_Intelligence_Investigations.html
	Leading newspapers like the New York Times and Washington Post, which had covered Watergate extensively, carried articles exposing the illegalities. The New York Times carried a front-page story on 22 Dec 1974 by Seymour Hersh entitled "Huge C.I.A. Operation Reported in U.S. Against Antiwar Forces, Other Dissidents in Nixon Years."

	A Presidential commission and several Congressional committees, the most famous of which was headed by Senator Frank Church of Idaho, held hearings and produced reports over the next few years.


https://www.senate.gov/artandhistory/history/common/investigations/ChurchCommittee.htm
	Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities
	
	(The Church Committee)

	Origins

	...In 1974 Pulitzer Prize winning journalist Seymour Hersh published a front-page New York Times article...


https://books.google.com/books?id=oM8u2198DcsC&pg=PT144
	On January 27, the Senate voted 82 to 4 to form the Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities, chaired by Idaho Democrat Frank Church, which became known as the Church Committee. The House moved to establish the Select Committee on Intelligence, chaired by New York Democrat Otis Pike. The star witness would be CIA director William Colby.

	...To some people in the agency, Colby's performances before Congress were at best designed to cripple the intelligence community. At worst, as hallway murmurings attested, Colby's testimony was tantamount to treason. According to his memoirs, Colby was convinced "that [the Rockefeller Commission, convened by President Ford, which preceded the Church Committee] would not be the end of the matter, and that the President's carefully circumscribed investigation of CIA's domestic affairs would not stop Congress from conducting its own probe . . . the atmosphere in the nation had far too radically changed--in the aftermath of Vietnam and Watergate--for the Executive Branch to get away, as it always had in the past, with keeping the cloak-and-dagger world of intelligence strictly in its own prerogative and affair . . . Intelligence," he mused, "was entering a new era, and the country was in the process of redefining its correct position under the Constitution." And so, in his testimonies before the investigative committees, Colby was far more forthright than any of his predecessors.

	Before the Rockefeller Commission, Colby revealed so much that the commission's chairman, Vice President Nelson Rockefeller, pulled him aside and said, "Bill, do you really have to present all this material to us? We realize that there are secrets that you fellows need to keep and so nobody here is going to take it amiss if you feel that there are some questions you can't answer quite as fully as you seem to feel you have to." In his memoirs, wrote Colby, "I got the message quite unmistakably and I didn't like it. The Vice-President of the United States was letting me know that he didn't approve of my approach to the CIA's troubles, that he would much prefer me to take a traditional stance of fending off investigators by drawing a cloak of secrecy around the agency in the name of national security."


https://www.maryferrell.org/pages/Post-Watergate_Intelligence_Investigations.html
	In February 1975, the same month the Rockefeller Commission was launched, the House Select Committee on Intelligence was formed under the leadership of Michigan Representative Lucien Nedzi. Only a few months had passed when the New York Times revealed that Nedzi, as head of the House Armed Services Intelligence Subcommittee, had been briefed in 1973 by CIA Director Colby on some of the contents of the "family jewels," including assassination plotting. The resulting furor expressed by other members of the Committee resulted in the Committee being dissolved in July and replaced by one run by Otis Pike of New York.


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/winter98_99/art07.html
	...What he wanted, he told Colby, was to build public and Congressional understanding and support for intelligence by "exposing" as much as possible of its nature without doing harm to proper intelligence activities. Pike related to Colby that he knew the investigation would cause "occasional conflict between us, but that a constructive approach by both sides should resolve it." 

	...While the Church Committee centered its intention on the more sensational charges of illegal activities by the CIA and other components of the IC, the Pike Committee set about ex~mining the CIA's effectiveness and its costs to taxpayers. Unfortunately, Representative Pike, the committee, and its staff never developed a cooperative working relationship with the Agency or the Ford administration.


https://books.google.com/books?id=iqptFbH1ndAC&pg=PA161
	Johnson's views on the intelligence community summarized the feelings of the nine-member majority:
		They were lying sons of bitches. They lie every chance they get. They are no-good people. They are no goddamn good. [Former DCI Richard] Helms lies to Congress, gets convicted of perjury, and says he will wear his conviction like a "bade of honor." I went out with staff one day to CIA headquarters. I told [CIA official Seymour] Bolten: "You, the CIA, are the enemy." The military establishment dominates this country today.

	...Mr. Dellums stated what he would like to see the committee do: "I think this committee ought to come down hard and clear on the side of stopping any intelligence agency in this country from utilizing corruption, and prostituting the media, the church and our educational system."


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/winter98_99/art07.html
	...Privately, Pike indicated that he believed the Agency was a "rogue elephant" out of control, as Senator Church had charged publicly. It needed to be restrained and major reporting reforms initiated.

	...An underlying problem was the large cultural gap between officers trained in the early years of the Cold War and the young staffers of the anti-Vietnam and civil rights movements of the late 1960s and early 1970s.

	...Under orders from the White House, CIA officials refused to testify in open session before the committee on these operations, declaring that such hearings would only benefit foreign intelligence services.

	The committee instead heard from Congressman Michael Harrington and Harvard law professor Roger Fisher, both of whom called for the outlawing of all covert action; former National Security Adviser McGeorge Bundy, who opposed covert action in peacetime; and historian Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., who claimed that the CIA was indeed "a rogue elephant" and who suggested that the only remedy was to impose strict executive and legislative oversight and drastically cut the intelligence budget as the ways to curb covert actions.


https://books.google.com/books?id=oM8u2198DcsC&pg=PT144
	Colby believed that if the CIA was going to survive, he had to cooperate with Congress. Stonewalling Congress, he thought, would challenge them to dismantle the agency altogether. By employing a policy of moderate openness with the committees, Colby reasoned, he could get Congress to "buy into" the intelligence community.

	...the Rockefeller Commission strongly suggested that the black budget was unconstitutional: "Congress should give careful consideration to whether the budget of the CIA should not, at least to some extent, be made public, particularly in view of the provisions of Article I, Section 9, Clause 7 of the Constitution."

	During the hearings, DCI Colby explained that the black budget was legal in his opinion.


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/winter98_99/art07.html
	The Pike Group's final report concluded that the foreign intelligence budget was three or four times than Congress had been told; that money appropriated for the IC was hidden throughout the entire Federal budget; that the total amount of funds expended on intelligence was extremely difficult to determine; and that Congressional and executive scrutiny of the budget ranged between "cursory and nonexistent."
	...The budget issue was only one major question raised by the Pike Committee. The committee also wanted to know just how effective the CIA and US intelligence had been over the past 10 years. 

	...the committee was critical of the performance of US intelligence ... For example, using the Agency's own postmortems on the Yom Kippur war, the committee found that the "principal conclusions concerning the commencement of hostilities...were--quite simply, obviously, and starkly--wrong." In earlier testimony before the committee, Colby admitted that, "We did not cover ourselves with glory. We predicted the day before the war broke out that it was not going to break out."

	...Colby expressed his continuing belief that the committee would find that the main thrust of US intelligence was "good, solid, and trustworthy."

	Pike responded that he had no intention of destroying US intelligence.


http://spartacus-educational.com/JFKpikeO.htm
	Three days later the House of Representatives voted 246 to 124 to direct the Pike Committee not to release its report until it "has been certified by the President as not containing information which would adversely affect the intelligence activities of the CIA." Pike was furious and pointed out: "The House just voted not to release a document it had not read. Our committee voted to release a document it had read."

	Worried that the report would never be published, someone on the House Select Intelligence Committee leaked the report to Daniel Schorr. He gave it to The Village Voice, which published it in full on 16th February 1976 under the title "The Report on the CIA that President Ford Doesn't Want You to Read."


http://www.nybooks.com/articles/1975/02/20/a-new-solution-for-the-cia/
	A New Solution for the CIA
	I.F. Stone	
	February 20, 1975 Issue

	Stalin did establish one useful precedent. He made it a practice to bump off whoever served as head of his secret police. He never let anybody stay in the job too long. As a successful dictator, Stalin seems to have felt that anybody who had collected so many secrets would be a No. 1 menace to security if he ever went sour. Stalin thought it safer not to wait.

	I think we ought to take Stalin’s example one step further. I think we ought to get rid of the CIA altogether, lock, stock, and burglar’s kit.


https://www.commentarymagazine.com/articles/the-war-within-the-cia/
	The impact of these investigations on the normal activities of the CIA was “devastating,” as William Colby explains in his autobiography: “Apart from the fact that I and any number of my senior associates were constantly being called away from Langley to testify before one committee or another, the agency overall was diverted from its responsibilities by the deluge of demands from the hordes of investigators, with literally hundreds of CIA officers reassigned from normal intelligence operations to handle the mechanical and clerical chores of locating requested documents, sanitizing them to remove names of agents and particularly sensitive operational material, and then negotiating whether or not the information could be publicly released.” According to other former executives of the CIA, the multiple investigations did much more than merely paralyze the CIA temporarily. They resulted in completely demoralizing its staff, disrupting its relations with other Western intelligence services on whom it depended for all practical purposes, wrecking it as a viable intelligence service.


http://www.nytimes.com/1975/11/10/archives/new-jersey-pages-cias-work-unimpeded-by-inquiries-and-reports.html
	C.I.A.'s Work Unimpeded By Inquiries and Reports, Officials of Agency Assert

	By SEYMOUR M. HERSH NOV. 10, 1975 

	Colby Praised

	Mr. Colby has been widely praised for his consistent efforts to cooperate with the various investigating committees that were set up this year, although his approach is known to have angered many associates and friends of Richard Helms


https://washington.blogs.nytimes.com/2007/06/27/perspective-on-the-jewels-from-the-cias-chief-historian/
	Perspective on the Jewels From the C.I.A.’s Chief Historian
	By David Robarge June 27, 2007

	For more than 30 years, the Family Jewels have clouded the C.I.A.’s reputation, even though most of their contents have long been known from official reports and ad hoc disclosures. William Colby — who oversaw the compilation of the Jewels while serving as the agency’s operations chief and director-designate — is the source of some durable misconceptions about them. In his memoir, Honorable Men (p. 340), Colby says that the Jewels consist of “693 pages of possible violations of, or at least questionable activities in regard to, the C.I.A.’s legislative charter”; that among the contents are “bizarre and tragic cases wherein the Agency experimented with mind-control drugs”; and that accompanying them was “a separate and even more secret annex” that “summarized a 1967 survey of C.I.A.’s involvement in assassination attempts or plans against Castro, Lumumba and Trujillo.”

	These misstatements were repeated at least in part in several widely read works, including Thomas Powers’s The Man Who Kept the Secrets, John Ranelagh’s The Agency, G.J.A. O’Toole’s Encyclopedia of American Intelligence and Espionage, and Norman Polmar and Thomas Allen’s Spy Book. 
	
	...The release of the Jewels should end much of the mythology about them.

	...These final records — several of them in Colby’s own hand — make an unintentionally fitting conclusion to the Jewels collection, the product of a process he orchestrated as a damage control exercise but which almost proved to be the agency’s undoing.


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/collection/family-jewels
	Widely known as the "Family Jewels," this document consists of almost 700 pages of responses from CIA employees to a 1973 directive from Director of Central Intelligence James Schlesinger asking them to report activities they thought might be inconsistent with the Agency's charter. Also available in PDF format (this file is 28MB, so please be patient while it downloads).


http://ndupress.ndu.edu/Portals/68/Documents/stratperspective/inss/Strategic-Perspectives-11.pdf
	The revelations about intelligence programs transgressing American civil liberties ushered in a period of intense public and congressional scrutiny. The scandals forced a reevaluation of the role of intelligence organizations in a free society. What emerged in the aftermath of the debate was a new American conception of intelligence that further inclined the national security system to ignore Soviet disinformation. 

	...Colby’s reforms ... effectively downgraded the importance of disinformation and deception. First, Colby decided in favor of complete openness, revealing all the tawdry secrets of the CIA (sometimes referred to as “the Family Jewels”), ranging from failed assassination attempts of foreign leaders to spying on American citizens. ...Colby oversaw a reprioritization of intelligence functions that reduced the emphasis on covert action, counterintelligence, and human intelligence sources in favor greater reliance on technical means of collecting information and better analysis. Past public support for covert action had evaporated, and “rightly or wrongly, a certain euphoria about détente signified to many that there was now [less need for] covert operations as a ready, effective weapon in our country’s Cold War arsenal.”

	...These developments had the effect of reducing CIA attention to covert Soviet disinformation activities such as the use of forgeries and other propaganda tools to influence foreign audiences. ...In their view, the reforms amounted to unilateral intelligence “disarmament.” In the words of one intelligence traditionalist, the CIA’s counterintelligence staff basically “lobotomized itself.”


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/97unclass/colby.html
	In short, Colby's effort to strengthen US intelligence through candor was seriously constrained from many sides. His revelations fueled the excesses of the Church and Pike committees, fed the public's misconceptions about the purposes of US intelligence, and weakened the country's support of intelligence--at least for some time thereafter.


The excess of Colby and the Pike and Church Committees helped shift the debate on how counterintelligence should be conducted in a free society to whether or not the CIA should exist at all. The results were reforms that "lobotomized" the agency. For all his talk of the CIA's controversial programs, Colby apparently did little to explain why a well-meaning person could support them or to inform the public of the scope and nature of the Soviet threat, as he didn't think it existed:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/entertainment/books/1978/04/23/agents-assassins-and-moles/20915ac6-cfb3-436f-944b-56d3288bbb02/
	What former CIA Director William E. Colby has described as Angelton's "ultraconspiratorial" view of the world is apparently no longer in vogue at the agency. But if his theories were doubted (Colby, for one, believed they did the CIA more harm than good), his brilliance never was. Even today, no one in the intelligence community seems brash enough to assert that Angleton didn't know what he was talking about. He seems to have kept too many secrets to himself, hoarding them like ammunition. In any case, professional disagreement with the CIA's chief of counterintelligence was always cautiously stated.

	In his own forthcoming book, Honorable Men: My Life in the CIA, Colby puts it this way:

	"I spent several long sessions doing my best to follow his torturous conspiracy theories about the long arm of a powerful and wily KBG at work, over decades, placing its agents in the heart of allied and neutral nations and sending its false defectors to influence and undermine American policy.I confess that I couldn't quite absorb it, possibly because I did not have the requisite grasp of this labyrinthine subject, possibly because Angleton's explanations were impossible to follow, or possibly because the evidence just didn't add up to his conclusions; and I finally concluded that the last was the only real answer. At the same time, I looked in vain for some tangible results in the counterintelligence field, and found little or none. I did not suspect Angleton and his staff of engaging in improper activities. I just could not figure out what they were doing at all."


The sum of Colby's interactions with the public were to increase animosity toward the CIA and to confuse and diminish public knowledge of Soviet espionage activities. Unfortunately, the same can be said for Angleton:


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/vol2/html/ChurchV2_0034a.htm
	Church Committee Reports

	...Senator Mondale. All right. What was your understanding of the legality of the covert mail operation?
	Mr. Angleton. That it was illegal.

	Senator Mondale. It was illegal. Now, you are an attorney? 

	Mr. Angleton. No, I am not, sir. 

	Senator Mondale. Well, that might be an asset. 

	Mr. Angleton. That is my cover, Senator. 

	Senator Mondale. How do you rationalize conducting a program which you believe to be illegal?

	Mr. Angleton. To begin with, I was taking it over as an ongoing operation and there was probability that the program, through lack of personnel and funding, would have been scrubbed at some stage. From the counterintelligence point of view, we believe that it was extremely important to know everything possible regarding contacts of American citizens with Communist countries. 

	And second, that we believed that the security of the operation was such that the Soviets were unaware of such a program and therefore that many of the interests that the Soviets would have in the United States, subversive and otherwise, would be through the open mails, when their own adjudication was that the mails could not be violated. 

	Senator Mondale. So that a judgment was made, with which you concurred, that although covert mail opening was illegal, the good that flowed from it, in terms of the anticipating threats to this country through the use of this counterintelligence technique, made it worthwhile nevertheless. 

	Mr. Angleton. That is correct.


http://press-pubs.uchicago.edu/founders/documents/v1ch4s5.html
	John Adams, Thoughts on Government
	Apr. 1776

	The foundation of every government is some principle or passion in the minds of the people. The noblest principles and most generous affections in our nature then, have the fairest chance to support the noblest and most generous models of government.

	...the very definition of a Republic, is "an Empire of Laws, and not of men." That, as a Republic is the best of governments, so that particular arrangement of the powers of society, or in other words that form of government, which is best contrived to secure an impartial and exact execution of the laws, is the best of Republics.


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/vol2/html/ChurchV2_0034a.htm
	Senator Mondale. How do you recommend that this committee deal with this profound crisis between political and legal responsibility in government, a nation that believes in the laws, and what you regard to be the counterintelligence imperative of illegal activity? What do we do about it? 

	Mr. Angleton. My own belief has always been that, high authority, whether it be on the Hill, the Congress, or in the Executive, needs to examine very closely the counterintelligence content available to this Government regarding its adversaries, and regarding the Soviet and the Soviet Bloc. 

	To my knowledge, there has never been such an examination. I believe very much in a statement made by Director of the FBI, Mr. Kelley, that it is his firm view, which he expressed in Canada at a bar association convention, that certain individual rights have to be sacrificed for the national security. 

	Senator Mondale. Do you believe that national security cannot be protected except through the sacrifice of these rights? 

	Mr. Angleton. I believe that all matters dealing with counter-espionage require very sophisticated handling and require considerable latitude. 

	Senator Mondale. Who do you think should be empowered to determine which rights should be set aside? 

	Mr. Angleton. I think that, sir, not being an expert in these matters, that it should be a combination of the Executive and the Congress. 

	Senator Mondale. How would the Congress express itself? Traditionally, it is through the adoption of laws. 

	Mr. Angleton. I am afraid I do not--


http://franklinpapers.org/franklin/framedVolumes.jsp?vol=6&page=238a
	[Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin]

	Those who would give up essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor Safety.


(An aside: Benjamin Wittes has some weird ideas about what that quote means:

https://www.lawfareblog.com/what-ben-franklin-really-said
	What Ben Franklin Really Said
	By Benjamin Wittes 

	...I started looking into this quotation because I am writing a frontal attack on the idea that liberty and security exist in some kind of "balance" with one another--and the quotation is kind of iconic to the balance thesis. Indeed, Franklin's are perhaps the most famous words ever written about the relationship. A version of them is engraved on the Statue of Liberty. They are quoted endlessly by those who assert that these two values coexist with one another in a precarious, ever-shifting state of balance that security concerns threaten ever to upset.

	...Very few people who quote these words, however, have any idea where they come from or what Franklin was really saying...

	...In short, Franklin was not describing some tension between government power and individual liberty. He was describing, rather, effective self-government in the service of security as the very liberty it would be contemptible to trade. Notwithstanding the way the quotation has come down to us, Franklin saw the liberty and security interests of Pennsylvanians as aligned.


I'm not sure what Wittes is talking about. As far as I can tell from his letter, Franklin was upset that the King was twisting Pennsylvania's arm, making them jump through hoops and infringing on their liberty just so they could fund their security. I think Franklin was saying that if you play that game and give in to that you don't deserve liberty or security.

Wittes's take on the quote says a lot about him, and maybe his associates too.)


http://www.history.org/foundation/journal/winter09/rights.cfm
	John Adams, then in England, who wrote to Thomas Jefferson, then in Paris, “What think you of a Declaration of Rights? Should not such a Thing have preceded the Model?” Jefferson agreed: he found much to like about the new plan for a federal government, but he objected to “the omission of a bill of rights.” He wrote to his fellow Virginian, James Madison, the Constitution’s primary author, that “a bill of rights is what the people are entitled to against every government on earth, general or particular, & what no government should refuse, or rest on inference.” Events proved that Adams and Jefferson, from across the Atlantic, were more in tune with popular opinion than the members of the Constitutional Convention. Soon people throughout America were clamoring for a list of individual rights, refusing to base their fundamental freedoms on “inference.” But nearly as many were vocal in their struggle against any such list.

	We cannot assume that those who fought against a bill of rights were reactionary, undemocratic, or anti-American, for some of the fiercest opposition came from the most passionate civil libertarians. Some said a bill of rights would not guarantee but restrict freedoms—that a list of specific rights would imply that they were granted by the government rather than inherent in nature. 


http://teachingamericanhistory.org/library/document/a-dissertation-on-the-canon-and-feudal-law/
	A Dissertation on the Canon and Feudal Law

	John Adams

	The poor people, it is true, have been much less successful than the great. They have seldom found either leisure or opportunity to form a union and exert their strength; ignorant as they were of arts and letters, they have seldom been able to frame and support a regular opposition. This, however, has been known by the great to be the temper of mankind; and they have accordingly labored, in all ages, to wrest from the populace, as they are contemptuously called, the knowledge of their rights and wrongs, and the power to assert the former or redress the latter. I say RIGHTS, for such they have, undoubtedly, antecedent to all earthly government, — Rights, that cannot be repealed or restrained by human laws — Rights, derived from the great Legislator of the universe.


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/vol2/html/ChurchV2_0039b.htm
	The Chairman. May I call your attention to it on page 109 of your testimony before this committee, September 12, beginning on line 9, and I read, “It is inconceivable that a secret intelligence arm of the Government has to comply with all of the overt orders of the Government.” 

	Mr. Angleton. I withdraw that statement. 

	The Chairman. Do you withdraw that statement? 

	Mr. Angleton. I do. 

	The Chairman. Did you not mean it when you said it the first time? 

	Mr. Angleton. This was stated before the hearings, before you held your hearings on this matter? 
	The Chairman. Yes, but when you said it to us, did you mean it or did you not mean it? 

	Mr. Angleton. I do not know how to respond to that question. 

	The Chairman. You do not know how to respond to the question? 

	Mr. Angleton. I said that I withdrew the statement. 

	The Chairman. Very well, but you are unwilling to say whether or not you meant it when you said it. 

	Mr. Angleton. I would say that the entire speculation should not have been indulged in. 


https://history.hanover.edu/courses/excerpts/111federalist.html
	Federalist Number 10

	James Madison

	 ...A republic, by which I mean a government in which the scheme of representation takes place, opens a different prospect, and promises the cure for which we are seeking.

	...to refine and enlarge the public views, by passing them through the medium of a chosen body of citizens, whose wisdom may best discern the true interest of their country, and whose patriotism and love of justice will be least likely to sacrifice it to temporary or partial considerations.


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/vol2/html/ChurchV2_0040b.htm
	Senator Morgan. Mr. Angleton, did you at that time consider the mail coverage indispensable to your job? 

	Mr. Angleton. I believed it was one of the few resources, routine in nature, available to counterintelligence. 

	Senator Morgan. Well, Senator Mondale asked you about your rationale behind opening the mail. How do you reconcile it with the rights of the individuals in this country under our Constitution? How did you reconcile your action? 

	Mr. Angleton. Well, Senator, I reconciled it in terms of the knowledge I had, and my colleagues had, regarding the nature of the threat. 

	Senator Morgan. Well, assuming, Mr. Angleton, that you were justified in your actions, which I don’t think you were, but assuming that, what is to prevent some other individual from deciding on his own that such activities are justified? And what is to prevent him from carrying out such activities? 

	Mr. Angleton. Senator, I don’t want to quibble. But I will have to say the operation was in being 3 years before I entered the scene. It was not something of an individual initiative, it was a group of like-minded men who arrived at similar and the same conclusions that this was an indispensable means of collecting foreign intelligence on the Soviets, who regard this country to be the main enemy, and, together with the Soviet bloc, coordinates their activities on their ideological basis. This is very persuasive to someone who has given up 31 years of their life with certain very high ideals for this country. When I left the Army, as many of us did, I believed that we were in the dawn of a millenium. When I look at the map today and the weakness of power of this country, that is what shocks me. 


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/vol53no4/201ccunning-passages-contrived-corridors201d.html
	Angleton possessed a brilliant intellect and extensive knowledge of current and historical Soviet operations, although his sometimes convoluted descriptions of case histories affected people differently. While his colleague William Hood said that he “would sometimes add a full dimension” to an operational discussion, former DCI James Schlesinger recalled that listening to him was “like looking at an Impressionist painting.”

	...Many people will remember Angleton only for two of his last publicized appearances: drunk, disheveled, and disoriented when a media mob confronted him at his home the morning after he was fired; and cagey, elusive, and defiant while testifying before the Church Committee several months later. Very quickly after he left Langley, an anti-Angleton orthodoxy set in at the Agency and coincided with the intelligence scandals of the mid-1970s and a public backlash against CIA that profoundly influenced subsequent interpretations of Angleton.


(Angleton had an opportunity here to explain the Soviet threat and he blew it. His performance at the Church Committee hearings and others contributed to the public backlash against the CIA and ultimately helped the Soviets discredit them.)


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/vol2/html/ChurchV2_0040b.htm
	Senator Morgan. Mr. Angleton, the thing that shocks me is that these actions could be carried on contrary to the constitutional rights of the citizens of this country. Do you not believe that we can gather the necessary intelligence that we need for the protection and security of this country, and at the same time live within the Constitution? 

	Mr. Angleton. I am not a constitutional lawyer and I do not have at my fingertips those parts of the amendments which appear, on the surface, to give the President certain rights in wiretapping and electronic surveillance. 

	And if I understand it correctly, I do not believe there is too much of an extension to the next stage, which is the question of American and Soviet communications, or Soviet bloc communications.

	Senator Morgan. I would beg to differ on that, and on the analysis that you made, and also the one that Mr. Huston made. But for the purpose of the guidance of this committee, can you give us any suggestion as to how the actions of that Central Intelligence Agency can be monitored in such a way as to protect the fundamental rights of the American citizens of this country? 

	Mr. Angleton. You mean how it should be restructured? 

	Senator Morgan. Yes; earlier you suggested that maybe the Congress and the President should take some action. But the thing that bothers me, Mr. Angleton, is how can we act if we don’t know the facts? And, if we do act, the intelligence agencies refuse to obey the guidelines and ordinances. In other words you were doing all of these things before the Huston plan was ever devised. You continued to do them after the President rejected the report. So, what assurance do we have that an intelligence agency would follow any mandate of the Congress or the President? And how can we prepare some mandates that would be followed? That is what this committee is searching for. 

	Mr. Angleton. I have nothing to contribute to that, sir, beyond what I have said already.


Angleton knew everything--what could have been a high profile, public exposé of Soviet activities ended up being an awkward, standoffish fight between the CIA and America's elected representatives. Worse, as a representative of the CIA, he gave the impression that the agency disregarded the fundamental American values of government accountability and rule of law.

Angleton was right about the Soviets, but by then that didn't do him--or the country--any favors. If anything, being right made things worse:


http://www.nytimes.com/1978/06/25/archives/the-angleton-story-from-forced-retirement-james-jesus-angleton.html
	THE ANGLETON

	By SEYMOUR M. HERSH JUNE 25, 1978 

	Early in the morning on Dec. 22, 1974, the day The New York Times ran the first of my series of reports on domestic spying by the Central Intelligence Agency, I got a phone call from James Angleton, who was identified in my story as the C.I.A.'s director of counterintelligence.

	“Do you know what you've done?” he said. “You've blown my cover. My wife, in 31 years of marriage, was never aware of my activity until your story. And now she's left me.”

	Angleton's office, I had been told by my Government sources, had directed the agency's illegal domestic activities, which had included amassing files on as many as 10,000 Americans and opening private mail, in violation of the Congressional statute barring the C.I.A. from intelligence operations within the United States. Nevertheless, I was stunned by the despair in his voice and mumbled some apology about a newsman's responsibility to the truth.

	I quickly telephoned a friend who had worked with Angleton in the C.I.A. My friend laughed.

	“I can tell you,” he said, “that Cicely did leave him, but not because of you. She left him about three years ago to go live out in Arizona.”

	She had since returned. “Of course,” my friend added, “she knows all about the C.I.A.”

	I had come across Angleton while gathering material for the C.I.A. series. In fact, I had had a long phone conversation with him just a few days previously. While denying any involvement in domestic spying, he suddenly began blurting out what I thought was highly secret information about alleged links between foreign Communist governments and domestic opponents of the Vietnam War. He told me of an agent “still active and still productive” in Moscow who was providing information about antiwar bombings inside the United States. He spoke of tracing Black Panthers to North Korea, where, he said, they were trained in the use of explosives. When I checked these allegations with other informed Government officials, they scoffed. There was no evidence, they said, of anything like that.

	...Angleton's side of the story was not long in coming.

	...I began to wonder: Who was this master spycatcher with a lifelong interest in Ezra Pound and Dante and a penchant for startling statements during conversations with journalists on the phone? ...It seemed to me that trying to understand this intelligence agent extraordinary could be a key to something of larger importance — the widely credited myth, with its pervasive effect on Congress, that somehow the C.I.A. and the people who run it are more competent and more knowing than the rest of us.

	...Angleton once again has become relevant to the issue — grown almost into a national debate —of what the C.I.A.'s mission should and should not be. He is, in effect, waging covert war on the C.I.A.'s new counterintelligence leaders over the one aspect of the problem that for him is the issue — the C.I.A.'s ability to withstand Soviet penetration.

	...He has become a source for many current newspaper articles and books with considerable impact on public opinion.

	For example, there is the recent widely reviewed book “Legend,” by Edward Jay Epstein, with its suggestion that the public perception of Lee Harvey Oswald as a disturbed loner may be a K.G.B. cover story — that President Kennedy's assassin may have been recruited by the Soviets (though not with assassination in mind). The book is based partially on interviews with Angleton, and the Oswald theory goes back to an old case involving a Soviet defector named Yuri Nosenko.

	One of the first things Nosenko told the C.I.A. when he came over in 1964 was that Oswald had not been recruited by the K.G.B. during his years in the Soviet Union. Angleton was skeptical. The Russian was placed in virtual solitary confinement and intensively interrogated for much of the next three years by Angleton and other counterintelligence men. Finally cleared as a credible source, Nosenko was relocated in North Carolina and placed on the C.I.A. payroll as a consultant. Angleton, however, remained convinced that Nosenko was a K.G.B. “disinformation” plant — even though, immediately after his defection, Nosenko had provided the C.I.A. with information that led to the arrest of at least two Soviet agents and to the shutting‐down of a major K.G.B. ring in France

	...Angleton's fundamental message that the C.I.A. counterintelligence capability has been seriously weakened by his ouster — is an article of faith with his former aides. “Counterintelligence just isn't a trade you can learn in a day,” one of them said to me recently. “There's an awful lot of data you must know, an awful lot of reading you must do.” He said he and Angleton once estimated that it took a young C.I.A. recruit five years to become a sophisticated counterintelligence agent. “The K.G.B.'s got the agency on the ropes,” he added. “Whether they can bring in a Sunday punch at this point we don't know yet. The capability for C.I. [counterintelligence] and for the whole has been damaged.”

	Other present and past officials of the C.I.A. dismissed such notions when talked to them. These men, who are among Angleton's critics, insist that the C.I.A.'s intelligence is as good as ever and that its counterintelligence is now more rational. They concede that the agency has come under closer control by Congress and the White House, but they see this as an inevitable result of the agency's past excesses.

	“The real question,” said one former high‐level C.I.A. official, “is: Did any of the C.I.A. directors ever really know all of what Angleton's office was doing? My guess is no.”

	What his office was doing, Angleton told a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing on the mail‐intercept program, was — among other things — ferreting out “foreign involvement” in the United States. And judging from a statement he made at an earlier closeddoor meeting with Senate investigators, this responsibility, in his mind, went pretty far. “It is inconceivable,” he said to the investigators, “that a secret intelligence arm of the Government has to comply with all the overt orders of the Government.” When, at the public hearing, Senator Richard S. Schweiker, reading from the record, asked him if that was an accurate quotation, Angleton replied, “Well, if it is accurate, it should not have been said.”

	...As for the participation of his division in illegal C.I.A. activities within the United States, one former agency official delivered himself of a passionate defense:

	“Look, you can legislate against violations of the [C.I.A.] charter, you can set up committees to investigate us, but you can never understand a clandestine organization unless you're involved in it. No Congressman and no Senator can understand it. It's so intense, so compassionate. can people and the Congress have to trust us. You can't legislate morality and integrity. We had a job to do for the United States Government, and we did it. We all faced our moral crises, our personal Gethsemanes, and had to do some jobs by any means possible.

	...But what had he done? What were his substantive achievements?

	In one magazine article shortly after his resignation, a longtime friend of Angleton's wrote that “the number of spies who have been caught in Angleton's net runs into the dozens.” I checked that with other C.I.A. officials, and they were more restrained. They said that many of the spies “caught” by him and his staff had, in fact, been turned in by defectors, and that many of the defectors were cold‐war refugees whose information was, at best, self‐serving.

	...As for detente, he has voiced suspicions that that, too, may be part of a Soviet intelligence plot to weaken American defenses. A former longtime C.I.A. official who met with Angleton shortly before his ouster found him concerned that “too many members of the press had ties to Russia.” “Anybody who wrote anything friendly to the Soviet Union,” the official told me, “he considers suspect.”

	These apparently deeply held beliefs, which seemed to have been shared by many of his men in the counterintelligence unit, were a source of dismay and embarrassment to most of the present and past C.I.A. officials to whom I talked about Angleton. One former official, who served as an aide to Richard Helms when Helms was director, recalled that Angleton would occasionally give his views of the Sino‐Soviet split at staff meetings, “and everybody would just look at one another and shrug.... Our view of the counterintelligence staff ranged from comical to one of horror.” Angleton's forced resignation was welcomed by many of his colleagues as ridding the agency of a high-level element of irrationality.

	How is it, then, that a man of such peculiar views should have risen so high in the intelligence establishment?

	One answer that emerged from my interviews had to do with a kind of tolerance of overzealousness in a good cause. Many of the people to whom Angleton owed his rise were men with an instinctive fear and hatred of Communism, carried over from their postwar intelligence work in Europe, who believed that the Soviet Union was waiting for American willpower to be drained away before moving directly against us. 

	...“Jim starts from the premise that the Soviet Union is a threat,” the official said. “It seems to me that you fellows” — meaning journalists critical of the C.I.A. — “are missing the key point: What is that threat? The threat has changed, but you could make a case that it's even greater today.” Détente could be a subtle contributing factor. In fact, he said, that was his own view.

	...From all these interviews, eventually gained the impression that Angleton was not only a proponent of the cold war but one of its victims, The political struggles that, to one degree or another, were provoked by the Soviet Union after World War II left the West with a legacy of fear of Soviet expansionism. As in any political conflict, there were extremists on both sides, and, over the years, Angleton came to symbolize one end of the spectrum, his apprehension of the Communist threat affecting his view of all things Russian. Thus, Nosenko could not simply be a Soviet defector; he had to be a pawn in a brilliant K.G.B. attempt to undermine the political security and well‐being of the United States. And if Nosenko did turn in some Soviet agents, Angleton would argue that they were agents who already had been written off by the K.G.B. The circle never ends.

	...Colby made it his goal, first, to take the Israeli desk away from Angleton, and, second, to force him out of the agency. In his recent book, “Honorable Men,” Colby writes, “I looked in vain for some tangible results in the counterintelligence field, and found little or none. I did not suspect Angleton and his staff of engaging in improper activities. I just could not figure out what they were at all.”
	
	...The phone call in which he accused me of breaking up his marriage was, I can only deduce, meant to make me suffer for “blowing his cover,” revealing the domestic spying operations and being responsible, in some way, for his dismissal. In another phone conversation, a few days later, he accused both me and The Times of “helping out the K.G.B. a great deal. You've done them a great service.” That his cover had long been blown as far as the Soviets were concerned — for one thing, Philby had identified him by name and title in his 1968 book, “My Silent War” — was something he apparently chose to forget.

	When I later told him that I wanted to write something more comprehensive about his career — he had, in the meantime, received the Distinguished Intelligence Medal, the C.I.A.'s highest award — he refused to grant me a formal interview and said, “You just go ahead and do what you want to do. The damage is pretty much irrevocable.” The threat to national security posed by the domestic‐spying revelations and his dismissal was, he assured me, far more extensive than I could possibly realize.


For whatever reason, Angleton saw it fit to call Hersh and "blurt out highly secret information," as Hersh put it. Hersh tied the warnings of Soviet subversion to Angleton, and the character assassination of Angleton took Angleton's message down with him.

Between Hersh, Colby, Watergate, "the family Jewels," the Pike Committee, the Church Committee, and Angleton, the "character assassination" campaign extended to the whole of the intelligence community. The public needed to know a secret, but the only ones who could tell it had been silenced.

The whole affair is said to have crippled the U.S. ability to understand and respond to active measures for years, and the public was largely kept in the dark. Some members of the U.S. intelligence community disagreed with Colby's reforms, however, and eventually formed the inter-agency Active Measures Working group, which made public the report (among others) 'Soviet Active Measures in the "Post-Cold War" Era' mentioned above:


http://ndupress.ndu.edu/Portals/68/Documents/stratperspective/inss/Strategic-Perspectives-11.pdf
	...In the words of one intelligence traditionalist, the CIA’s counterintelligence staff basically “lobotomized itself.” Some traditionalists retired or were forced out, but many of those who remained were determined to limit, counter, and reverse the impact of the reforms. Such individuals played a critical role in establishing the Active Measures Working Group.

	...Over the same period that dominant U.S. strategic thinking, intelligence reform, and organizational priorities and structure were disposing the U.S. national security bureaucracy to ignore Soviet disinformation, the Soviets were reemphasizing the importance of deception and disinformation and redoubling their efforts in these areas.

	In May 1959, the Soviet leadership had transformed the KGB from a domestic repressive apparatus into a more sophisticated tool for influencing foreign affairs, one that included a KGB active measures department called Department D. According to CIA testimony in 1961, the KGB produced at least 32 forgeries of official U.S. documents in the previous 4 years (some went undetected) covering diverse topics but all portraying the United States as a major threat to world peace with imperial designs on the Third World. In 1971, the Soviets again upgraded Department D, making it a “Service” (Service A) and placed it under the direction of a KGB general. In this organizational structure, the Soviets built up a formidable disinformation bureaucracy of some 700 officers and integrated it with their larger active measures and strategic intelligence operations, which involved thousands of other personnel.

	...Integrating these diverse activity sets allowed the Soviets to react quickly to historical developments. For example, after President John F. Kennedy’s assassination in November 1963, the KGB paid an American communist and Soviet agent in New York City to publish and distribute a book that used KBG forgeries to support the claim that Kennedy was killed by a right-wing racist conspiracy with help from the FBI and CIA. The book came out less than 10 months later and just before the Warren Commission released its findings that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone. By contrast, U.S. efforts to counter Soviet disinformation were anything but centralized, integrated, and timely—indeed 15 years later, attempts to counter Soviet disinformation had virtually disappeared.

	...Despite détente and the intelligence reforms of the mid-1970s, some people remained convinced of the need to counter Soviet disinformation and deception. This view was not popular in the intelligence bureaucracy and even less so in academia, but in Congress it found fertile ground in a number of offices. Several congressional staff and investigators on the Senate Intelligence Committee and House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, notably Herbert Romerstein, Angelo Codevilla, and Kenneth deGraffenried, were interested in studying and exposing Soviet deception and active measures. These staffers used their positions to push the intelligence agencies to start reporting again on active measures—something the CIA had not done since 1965—particularly during the final 2 years of the Carter administration when support for détente was wearing thin in the face of aggressive Soviet behavior.

	...They even went so far as to target President Carter himself with disinformation in September 1980. The KGB produced a forged NSC document that was then run in an American communist newspaper under the title “Carter’s Secret Plan to Keep Black Africans and Black Americans at Odds.” The case is illustrative of both Soviet tactics and the lack of American readiness to respond. TASS (Telegrafnoye agentstvo Sovetskovo Soyuza) picked up and distributed the article, and the KGB disseminated the TASS piece around the world through Soviet embassies. In under a month, the KGB had produced a forgery, published it through an American agent, disseminated the disinformation via TASS stringers who wrote an article citing the American article for legitimacy, and then redistributed it to their agents of influence around the world. In contrast, the few U.S. experts on Soviet disinformation within the national security bureaucracy had no high-level access or organizational vehicle for coordinating a response. Therefore, the White House had to answer the charges directly if it felt the need, which it did. It held a press conference on September 17 to protest the forgery. It was a partial success. The Washington Post reported the White House’s exposure of the forgery on page two. However, the White House spokesman, feeling the need to be cautious, refused to identify the source of the forgery. As a result, the Post ’s reporter was left to speculate about the forgery’s origins, raising the question of whether Carter’s political foes—specifically Ronald Reagan—were responsible. As the saying goes, “the lie was halfway around the world while the truth was still getting its boots on.”

	Such shenanigans did nothing to improve U.S.-Soviet relations, which were already on a downward trajectory for multiple reasons, but particularly because of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. In the United States, “most experts would probably have agreed that [the global balance of power] had been titling in Moscow’s favor through most of the 1970s”; the invasion of Afghanistan seemed to put the exclamation mark on this realignment. With U.S. leaders trying to limit damage from the Vietnam debacle, stem strategic disengagement by Congress, and overcome the agonizing self-doubt inflicted by Watergate and other scandals, some believed that the United States was on the strategic defensive and in danger of irreversible decline. One scholar who would later play a key role in establishing the Active Measures Working Group worried that the Soviets were on the verge of “psychologically anesthetizing Americans” against the implications of expanding Soviet power.

	...Reagan’s fundamental “reset” in U.S.-Soviet relations, resolutely pursued by top intelligence and public diplomacy officials, was the precondition for the creation of the Active Measures Working Group. The administration had put the bureaucracy on notice that the underlying assumption of détente—that the Soviet Union was too powerful and permanent to confront— was dead. Confronting the Soviet Union was very much in vogue, and the Active Measures Working Group was one of many initiatives reflecting this shift in policy.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_Measures_Working_Group
	The Interagency Active Measures Working Group was a group led by the United States Department of State and later by the United States Information Agency (USIA). The group was formed early during the Reagan administration, in 1981, when some mid-level officials in the U.S. Department of State sought a more robust effort to counter aggressive Soviet propaganda. Some believe also that the group was created because active measures experts in the CIA wanted an outlet for their findings that could be more overt and credible than those of the CIA.

	...The group's first counter-disinformation effort against the Soviet Union took the form of a report, "State Department Special Report 88, Soviet Active Measures: Forgery, Disinformation, Political Operations" in October 1981. The document was a four-page overview of soviet active measures techniques and included Soviet disinformation themes and past examples. 14,000 copies of the report were distributed to news organizations, federal agencies, etc.

	The group also issued a series of State Department Foreign Affairs Notes that USIA distributed to journalists, academics, and other interested persons abroad. One important publication distributed by the group was the House Intelligence Committee hearing on Soviet Active Measures which showed foreign audiences that there was congressional support for exposing Soviet disinformation.

	The group also held press conferences to expose Soviet forgeries and distributed copies of the fake documents to attending journalists.

	This method was further encouraged when Congress passed a law in 1985 requiring that the Interagency Active Measures Working Group publish a series of reports on Soviet active measures. Accordingly, the State Department published three reports in 1986, 1987 and 1989. The FBI also contributed by providing reports that were printed in these publications on Soviet active measures in the United States.

	...Abolition

	Support for the group began to deteriorate in the late 1980s because Soviet disinformation seemed less of a threat in light of Gorbachev's Glasnost, and the Soviets' promise to cease all disinformation operations...


The rest, as they say, is history.


As far as we can learn from history, the way Russia used the Watergate scandal can at least give us ideas as to how they think. It's often said active measures are meant, in part, to foment public distrust in the government, and that bears-out in Russia's targeting of anti-Vietnam war activists and their reporting on Nixon, Watergate, and Vietnam, especially regarding documents like the Pentagon papers and the Huston plan (which helped tie all these together, among other things). But it's less often said how Russian intelligence make use of this distrust. Hersh's reporting shows, I think, a pretty clear effort to re-direct public outrage at the Vietnam War, Watergate, and Nixon to the CIA. And this essentially gave people like Schlesinger, Colby, Angleton, Hersh, and Church cover to act in ways to pile-on the beat-down of the CIA: it gave an excuse for Schlesinger and Colby to collect the family jewels, Colby and Angleton a reason to act guilty and make the CIA look even worse, Hersh to continue reporting on the scandal for the public interest, Colby an excuse to confess to Church, the Pike Committee and its young "anti-war" staffers an excuse to attack U.S. intelligence agencies, and Colby and Congress an excuse to "lobotomize" the CIA. Manipulating public opinion by active measures can lead to policy changes that benefit Russian intelligence/hurt the U.S., in addition to (or enhancing) discrediting U.S. intelligence agencies and hiding their activities.

But maybe more important than that, the Watergate scandal and the ensuing U.S. intelligence scandals gave the KGB material to attempt to discredit the USIC for decades:


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...infowars.com ... globalresearch.ca ... consortiumnews.com ... opednews.com ... thirdworldtraveler.com ... lewrockwell.com ... washingtonsblog.com ... zerohedge.com...


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_President's_Commission_on_CIA_Activities_within_the_United_States
	The commission was created in response to a December 1974 report in The New York Times that the CIA had conducted illegal domestic activities, including experiments on U.S. citizens, during the 1960s. The commission issued a single report in 1975, touching upon certain CIA abuses including mail opening and surveillance of domestic dissident groups. It publicized Project MKUltra, a CIA mind control study.

	It also studied issues relating to the John F. Kennedy assassination, specifically the head snap as seen in the Zapruder film (first shown on television in 1975), and the possible presence of E. Howard Hunt and Frank Sturgis in Dallas, Texas.


http://www.washingtonsblog.com/2016/11/fake-news-cia-director-admitted-us-senate-400-agents-dictate-fake-news-manipulate-americans-rogue-state-empire-easily-documented-ongoing-corporate-media.html
	...revealing 14-minute video, beginning with CIA Director Colby’s testimony to the US Senate for the 1975 Church Committee admitting the CIA directs corporate media how to lie to the American public

	...Fake News ‘covers’ crimes of US government assassinations of President Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, Martin King

	3-minute video of Dan Rather’s fake news from November 25, 1963 to sell the lie that President Kennedy’s fatal head shot caused “violent forward motion” opposite to the fact his head was violently hit to cause backward motion (hat tip What Really Happened)

	...This is part of easily documented history of US rogue state assassinations of President Kennedy, Robert Kennedy (and here) when he was poised to win the 1968 presidency, Martin King when he was poised to “Occupy DC” with a million people in the summer of ’68 until the Vietnam War was ended with those funds redirected to end domestic poverty, and ~100 other assassinations for political purposes. 


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_F._Kennedy_assassination_conspiracy_theories
	In 1977, the FBI released 40,000 files pertaining to the assassination of Kennedy, including an April 3, 1967 memorandum from Deputy Director Cartha DeLoach to Associate Director Clyde Tolson that was written less than a month after President Johnson learned from J. Edgar Hoover about CIA plots to kill Fidel Castro. The memorandum reads: "Marvin Watson [adviser to President Johnson] called me late last night and stated that the president had told him, in an off moment, that he was now convinced that there was a plot in connection with the [JFK] assassination. Watson stated the president felt that [the] CIA had had something to do with plot." Later, Cartha DeLoach testified to the Church Committee that he "felt this to be sheer speculation".


https://www.lewrockwell.com/2013/11/jacob-hornberger/how-they-murdered-jfk-2/
	The National-Security State’s Assassination of John F. Kennedy

	...Sure, we know how the feds treat people like Daniel Ellsberg, Chelsey (Bradley) Manning, John Walker Lindh, and Edward Snowden. They arrest them, they torture them, they abuse them, they prosecute them, and they incarcerate them.

	And we also know how the CIA and the FBI viewed communist sympathizers during the Cold War, such as those in the U.S. Communist Party, the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, and, according to national-security state officials, even the American civil-rights movement. They spied on them, they harassed them, they prosecuted them, they blackmailed them, they incarcerated them, and they ruined them.

	But hey, Lee Harvey Oswald was different, right?

	...Neither the Warren Commission nor the Washington establishment considered Dulles’ appointment to be a conflict of interest because it never occurred to them that the CIA might have been the one who orchestrated and carried out the assassination. It wouldn’t be until the 1970s, during the Church Committee hearings and the House Select Committee hearings, that people would learn that the trust that the Warren Commission had placed in the CIA had been seriously misplaced.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-06-04/putin-hints-jfk-was-murdered-deep-state-which-now-after-trump-and-russia
	Putin Hints JFK Was Murdered By The "Deep State" Which Is Now After Trump And Russia

	by Tyler Durden

	...But the most notable highlight of the interview was Putin's tongue in cheek hint that the Deep State - the same entity that may have been behind the Kennedy assassination according to the Russian president - is now behind the attempt to topple Trump and the ongoing push to sour ties with Russia:

		"There is a theory that Kennedy's assassination was arranged by the United States intelligence services. So if this theory is correct, and that can't be ruled out, then what could be easier in this day and age than using all the technical means at the disposal of the intelligence services and using those means to organize some attacks, and then pointing the finger at Russia." 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-05-14/putin-plays-soviet-classics-badly-tuned-piano-during-china-summit
	Putin Plays Soviet Classics On Badly Tuned Piano During China Silk Road Summit

	by Tyler Durden

	...It was a departure for the president who, as the NYT put it, "has ridden shirtless on a horse in Siberia, piloted a hand glider with migratory birds, swum with dolphins, tossed judo opponents, and dived into the depths of Lake Baikal and the Black Sea." 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-03-31/buchanan-asks-putin-preeminent-statesman-our-times
	Buchanan Asks "Is Putin The 'Preeminent Statesman' Of Our Times?"

	by Tyler Durden

	...Putin’s approval rating, after 17 years in power, exceeds that of any rival Western leader.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2014-11-10/how-putin-rolls
	This Is How Putin Rolls

	by Tyler Durden


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2014-04-27/quest-find-putins-billions
	The Quest To Freeze "Putin's Billions"

	by Tyler Durden

	...Numbers are thrown around suggesting that Mr. Putin may control $40 billion or even $70 billion, in theory making him the richest head of state in world history.


http://www.zerohedge.com/contributed/2013-09-16/mega-putin-rich
	Mega Putin Rich


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-12-25/losers-malice-whats-behind-obamas-attacks-putin
	A Loser's Malice: What's Behind Obama's Attacks On Putin

	by Tyler Durden

	...For Obama, it appears that everything has gotten personal. The US president often acts like a petulant adolescent, jealous of a high school rival.


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/book5/html/ChurchVol5_0004b.htm
	Church Committee Reports

	Book V: The Investigation of the Assassination of President J.F.K.: Performance of the Intelligence Agencies

	...In the days following the assassination of President Kennedy, nothing was more important to this country than to determine the facts of his death; no one single event has shaken the country more. Yet the evidence of the Committee has developed suggests that, for different reasons, both the CIA and the FBI failed in, or avoid carrying out, certain of their responsibilities in this matter.

	The Committee emphasizes that this Report's discussion of investigative deficiencies and the failure of American intelligence agencies to inform the Warren Commission of certain information does not lead to the conclusion that there was a conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.


http://www.globalresearch.ca/jfk-at-100-kennedy-assassinated-by-a-conspiracy-between-the-cia-joint-chiefs-of-staff-and-secret-service/5592608
	JFK at 100. “Kennedy Assassinated by a Conspiracy between the CIA, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Secret Service”

	...Researchers who spent years studying the evidence have concluded that President Kennedy was assassinated by a conspiracy between the CIA, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Secret Service. 


http://www.globalresearch.ca/cia-targeted-assassinations-by-induced-heart-attack-and-cancer/5326382
	CIA Targeted Assassinations by Induced Heart Attack and Cancer

	The 1975 Church Committee hearings

	In 1975, during the Church Committee hearings, the existence of a secret assassination weapon came to light.

	...There was little hesitancy in Jack Ruby killing Lee Harvey Oswald in order to prevent him from talking, so there is no reason to suspect that any more consideration would have been shown Jack Ruby if he had posed a threat to people in the US government who had conspired to murder the president of the United States – John F Kennedy.

	...Mr. Charles Senseney, a CIA weapon developer at Fort Detrick, Maryland, testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee in September 1975 where he described an umbrella poison dart gun he had made. 
	...Video footage of the assassination of John F Kennedy shows this umbrella gun being used in Dealey Plaza. 


https://www.infowars.com/cia-assassination-program-revealed-nothing-new-under-the-sun/
	CIA Assassination Program Revealed: Nothing New Under the Sun

	...Mongoose operatives later worked with the CIA and the Mob to assassinate president John F. Kennedy.

	...As former CIA employee Ralph McGehee documents, the agency fine-tuned this mass murder program in Vietnam. Under Operation Phoenix, the U.S. “neutralized” 81,740 National Liberation Front of South Vietnam members, including the assassination of 26,369 people (a Church Committee Report in 1976 put the number killed at 20,000; see McGehee’s CIA and Operation Phoenix in Vietnam)


http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/Assassinations_page/The_Assassinations_JFK.html
	The Church Committee also heard testimony from Smathers, who stated that once when it was brought up in his presence (presumably by the CIA-friendly Smathers), Kennedy got so mad he smashed a dinner plate and told him he did want to hear of such things again. (Alleged Assassination Plots, p. 124.) Smathers furthered this portrait later when he stated that:

		President Kennedy seemed "horrified" at the idea of political assassination. "I remember him saying that the CIA frequently did things he didn't know about, and he was unhappy about it. He complained that the CIA was almost autonomous. He told me he believed the CIA had arranged to have Diem and Trujillo bumped off. He was pretty well shocked about that. He thought it was a stupid thing to do, and he wanted to get control of what the CIA was doing." (The Assassinations: Dallas and Beyond pp. 379-380)

	Such statements not only absolve Kennedy, they actually provide a motive for the CIA to get rid of him, which is probably why the media ignored them.


https://consortiumnews.com/tag/otis-pike?print=print-search
	When the CIA’s Empire Struck Back

	Exclusive: In the mid-1970s, Rep. Otis Pike led a brave inquiry to rein in the excesses of the national security state. But the CIA and its defenders...


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/book5/html/ChurchVol5_0004b.htm
	Church Committee Reports

	Book V: The Investigation of the Assassination of President J.F.K.: Performance of the Intelligence Agencies

	...Findings

	The Committee emphasizes that it has not uncovered any evidence sufficient to justify a conclusion that there was a conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.

	The Committee has, however, developed evidence which impeaches the process by which the intelligence agencies arrived at their own conclusions about the assassination, and by which they provided information to the Warren Commission. This evidence indicates that the investigation of the assassination was deficient and that facts which might have substantially affected the course or those individuals within the FBI and the CIA, as well as other agencies of Government, who were charged with investigating the assassination.

	The Committee has found that the FBI, the agency with primary responsibility in the matter, was ordered by Director Hoover and pressured by higher government officials, to conclude its investigation quickly.


https://consortiumnews.com/2016/11/21/failed-investigations-of-jfks-murder/
	“It must be said that the FBI generally exhausted its resources in confirming its case against Oswald as the lone assassin,” the HSCA concluded, “a case that Director J. Edgar Hoover, at least, seemed determined to make within 24 hours of the of the assassination.”

	In essence, the experienced investigators concluded that Hoover had divined the solution to the crime before starting the inquiry, and then his agents confirmed the boss’s epiphany. The intimidated Warren Commission went right along.

	...But they don’t tell that Hoover deployed one of his favorite dirty tricks to deal not only with support staffers, such as Willens and Mosk, but also with the commissioners themselves.

	...Thus, despite their clear misgivings, the Commissioners bowed to the imperious FBI chief rather than conduct a thorough investigation.


https://www.reddit.com/r/The_Donald/comments/6h3cme/fbi_vault_drops_the_j_edgar_hoover_files_while/
	FBI Vault drops the J. Edgar Hoover files while everyone is watching the Sessions testimony. Perhaps a hint that Comey knows all about the domestic spying?


https://vault.fbi.gov/j.-edgar-hoover-official-and-confidential-o-c-files
	This posting consists of material that was previously posted on the FBI's original FOIA Reading Room web site and released in hard copy prior to that. It has been digitally enhanced to be more readable.


http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/CIA/Who_Killed_JFK.html
	Evidence of a cover-up

	The evidence that there was a cover-up is just as impressive as the evidence that there was a conspiracy in the first place. Here is a brief run-down, including a couple of points not mentioned above:

	...* Many more witnesses have died than would normally be expected, many in mysterious circumstances.
	* Both the FBI and the CIA concealed important evidence from the Warren Commission....


 	...Who was involved?

	The Soviets

	Two related theories propose that Nikita Khrushchev, humiliated by the 1962 Missile Crisis, instigated the assassination.

	...But the Soviet theory raises more questions than it answers. Why would the USSR risk nuclear war to promote LBJ, a much more militant Cold Warrior than JFK? 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-01-14/will-cia-assassinate-trump-ron-paul-warns-more-powerful-shadow-government
	Will The CIA Assassinate Trump? Ron Paul Warns Of "More Powerful, Shadow Government"

	...If President Trump takes his rogue populism too far, he will suffer the wrath of the same people who took out Kennedy… there are some things that are not tolerated by those who are really in charge.


https://www.infowars.com/33-conspiracy-theories-that-turned-out-to-be-true-what-every-person-should-know/
	33 Conspiracy Theories That Turned Out To Be True, What Every Person Should Know…

	...Kennedy Assassination – the 2nd Investigation by Congress Few People Know About, United States House of Representatives Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA): The HSCA was established in 1976 to investigate the John F. Kennedy assassination and the Martin Luther King, Jr. assassination. The Committee investigated until 1978, and in 1979 issued its final report, concluding that President John F. Kennedy was probably assassinated by a conspiracy involving the mob, and potentially the CIA.

	...To this day, many conspiracy deniers are unaware that the Congressional investigation into JFK’s assassination concluded beyond any shadow of a doubt that it was a conspiracy.  What made them come to this conclusion?  Aside from reading the report, many witnesses (some of whom were CIA agents and station chiefs in Dallas that morning) were killed the night before testifying.  For example, George de Mohrenschildt was a petroleum geologist who befriended Lee Harvey Oswald during the months preceding the assassination of U.S. President John F. Kennedy.  He also worked for the CIA.  He also blew his brains out the night before he was to testify to the committee. The committee also uncovered, among many things, that Oswald left the marines where he learned how to speak fluent Russian (at the height of the cold war).  He was given money by the State Department to travel to Russia where he stopped off in Japan at a top secret US Military facility.  The Warren Commission even mentioned this part.  What most people do not know is that he probably was working in the Cold War infiltrating the Russians as either a “dangle,” “double agent,” or “defector” of some kind. 


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/book5/html/ChurchVol5_0004b.htm
	Church Committee Reports

	Book V: The Investigation of the Assassination of President J.F.K.: Performance of the Intelligence Agencies

	...The Committee has found that even with this narrow focus, the FBI investigation, as well as the CIA inquiry, was deficient on the specific question of the significance of Oswald's contacts with pro-Castro and anti-Castro groups for the many months before the assassination.


http://www.globalresearch.ca/william-pawley-the-kennedy-assassination-and-watergate-tilt-and-the-phase-three-story-of-clare-boothe-luce/5313486
	And Carrozza speculates that the team of Cubans exfiltrated into Cuba for this purpose may have been the team that (according to a John Roselli story published by Jack Anderson) came “back to the United States as the team that killed President Kennedy and set up Oswald as the fall guy.”


https://www.lewrockwell.com/2014/11/no_author/operation-mongoose-and-the-murder-of-jfk/
	The JFK assassination, Cuba policy and Operation Mongoose

	...This period of US history proved to be toxic, with a poisonous legacy that is still felt today. The assassinations of Robert Kennedy, Martin Luther King Jr and Malcolm X followed. Race riots and the Vietnam War would lead to such civil unrest and turmoil that political leaders accelerated the passing of civil rights legislation and wound down the war. The era culminated in Watergate. The Church Committee, named after Senator Frank Church, would eventually be set up in order to investigate the actions of intelligence agencies and how events had spiralled so out of control. The revelations that followed of the FBI’s mass surveillance and wiretapping programme CountelPro and the CIA’s Executive Action programme (code-named ZR/RIFLE) were incendiary. The latter was the CIA’s assassination apparatus, which employed a strategy of plausible deniability in order that the executive could disavow responsibility in the event of exposure. It was directed against various foreign leaders. The Church Committee not only meticulously details the CIA’s failed plots on Castro’s life but also documents the involvement of the CIA with the Mafia in this common aim. The US public would never see their government institutions in the same way again. Faith in government began to crumble the moment those shots rang out in Dealey Plaza.

	Malcolm X was probably closer to the mark than he realized when he commented on the assassination that ‘the chickens had come home to roost’. He was referring to the climate of hate in the US at the time.


The Okhrana might figure that when it comes to informing the public of their clandestine activities, it will come down to their word (or the word of their plausibly deniable surrogates) versus the USIC's. Anything they can grab onto to convince the American public U.S. intelligence agencies can't be trusted is precious. The more Americans distrust their government, the more the Okhrana can get away with.

This is why, I think, the Okhrana has relied and will rely as much as possible on manipulating U.S. intelligence agencies into discrediting themselves. With the CIA Watergate scandals, Hersh did a lot to help, but it was arguably people within the U.S. Government and USIC that did most of the work: Schlesinger, Colby, Angleton, Pike, Church, and others (say, Kissinger). By the Okhrana's calculus, even "burning" a high-level mole to discredit and silence the USIC might be worth it: active measures relies on fooling an uninformed public, and hiding their own activities would be more useful to them overall than keeping tabs on others. And manufacturing a real scandal would have a lot more staying power than just badmouthing the CIA in tabloids and fake news sites.

So, returning to the original question of "what will they try this time?", I think for a few reasons they will once again try to use members of the intelligence community itself to drag U.S. intelligence agencies into another major scandal, although there are some major differences between now and Watergate. With Watergate, Russian propagandists tried to tie the USIC's activities to Vietnam, Nixon, and his unpopular policies (e.g. Hersh's reporting and the Huston plan made it look like the CIA was spying on activists for Nixon). Like Nixon, Trump distrusts U.S. intelligence agencies (and it looks like he reads Russian fake news and actually believes it):


http://www.mcclatchydc.com/news/nation-world/national/national-security/article120497558.html
	How dangerous is Trump’s rejection of daily intelligence briefings?

	President-elect Donald Trump’s weekend statement that he planned not to receive a daily intelligence briefing has exploded into controversy.

	Former U.S. intelligence officers, already feeling angst over some of Trump’s remarks disparaging their work, warned that skipping the daily briefing could leave Trump slow to recognize developing crises

	...Trump told Fox News in an interview aired Sunday that “very good people” are giving him periodic briefings but that he has delegated the daily briefing to Vice President-elect Mike Pence because he doesn’t need to hear “the same thing every day, every morning, same words.”

	...“You know, I’m like a smart person. I don’t have to be told the same thing and the same words every single day for the next eight years,” Trump said.

	The remarks came two days after Trump’s office issued a blistering statement following news reports that the CIA had told legislators that Russian meddling before the Nov. 8 vote had been designed to sway the election in Trump’s favor.

	...Trump is not the first incoming U.S. leader in the past half century to back off from daily intelligence briefings. Richard Nixon, long hostile to the CIA, refused intelligence briefings during the transition following his 1968 election.


http://www.masslive.com/politics/index.ssf/2017/01/president-elect_donald_trump_s_8.html
	President-elect Donald Trump slams intelligence community over dossier, Hillary Clinton email probe

	President-elect Donald Trump continued to take aim at U.S. intelligence officials Friday, contending that they leaked an alleged Russian dossier and were "very nice" to his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton.

	...The president-elect reiterated his suggestion that the dossier was likely released by intelligence officials despite being unsubstantiated.

	"It now turns out that the phony allegations against me were put together by my political opponents and a failed spy afraid of being sued ... Totally made up facts by sleazebag political operatives, both Democrats and Republicans - FAKE NEWS!" he tweeted. "Russia says nothing exists. Probably ... released by 'Intelligence' even knowing there is no proof, and never will be."


https://www.infowars.com/drudge-are-corrupt-us-intel-agencies-blackmailing-trump/
	Drudge: “Are Corrupt US Intel Agencies Blackmailing Trump?”
	Independent media kingpin thinks CIA may be using its 'own dirt'


https://milo.yiannopoulos.net/2017/04/trump-retweet-drudge/
	The President Of The United States Just Retweeted Drudge Report

		Donald J. Trump Retweeted	
		DRUDGE REPORT @DRUDGE_REPORT
		RICE ORDERED SPY DOCS ON TRUMP?

		Former US Attorney: Susan Rice Ordered Spy Agen..

		'Tremendous abuse of the system'


	...President Donald Trump retweeted Drudge Report this morning, prompting mass triggering and hysteria on the left.


https://www.infowars.com/ex-cia-agent-evan-mcmullin-donald-trump-is-a-domestic-enemy/
	Ex-CIA Agent Evan McMullin: Donald Trump is a “Domestic Enemy”
	2016 presidential candidate sides with deep state coup


https://www.infowars.com/trump-tweets-infowars-liberals-go-into-meltdown/
	Trump Tweets Infowars; Liberals Go Into Meltdown
	Major butt-hurt after Republican frontrunner links to article about Muslims celebrating 9/11

		Donald J. Trump
		@realdDonaldTrump

		I LIVE IN NEW JERSEY & @realDonaldTrump is RIGHT: MUSLIMS DID CELEBRATE ON 9/11 HERE! WE SAW IT! infowars.com/i-live-in-jers...


https://www.infowars.com/special-report-the-cia-threatens-trump/
	Schumer Says Intel Agencies Could ‘Get Back At’ Trump Over Tweets
	'You take on the intelligence community - they have 6 ways from Sunday at getting back at you'


https://www.infowars.com/cia-director-warns-trump-to-watch-what-he-says-be-careful-on-russia/
	CIA director warns Trump to watch what he says, be careful on Russia
	"What I do find outrageous is equating intelligence community with Nazi Germany"

	CIA Director John Brennan on Sunday had a stern parting message for Republican Donald Trump days before he assumes the U.S. presidency, cautioning him against loosening sanctions on Russia and warning him to watch what he says.


https://www.infowars.com/trump-asks-twitter-followers-if-outgoing-cia-boss-john-brennan-was-behind-russian-dirty-dossier-leak/
	Trump Asks Twitter followers if outgoing CIA boss John Brennan was behind Russian dirty dossier leak

		Donald J. Trump
		@realDonaldTrump

		@FoxNews "Outgoing CIA Chief, John Brenan, blasts Pres-Elect Trump on Russia threat. Does not fully understand." Oh really, couldn't do much worse - just look at Syria (red line), Crimea, Ukraine, and the build-up of Russian nukes. Not good! Was this the leaker of Fake News?


https://www.infowars.com/trump-fbi-is-totally-unable-to-stop-the-national-security-leakers/
	Trump: “FBI Is Totally Unable to Stop the National Security Leakers”
	President rips subversives in failing national security agency

		The FBI is totally unable to stop the national security "leakers" that have permeated our government for a long time. They can't even……

		— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 24, 2017

		find the leakers within the FBI itself. Classified information is being given to media that could have a devastating effect on U.S. FIND NOW

    		— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 24, 2017


https://www.infowars.com/report-trump-set-to-overhaul-politicized-intelligence-agencies/
	Report: Trump Set To Overhaul ‘Politicized’ Intelligence Agencies
	"They all need to be slimmed down"


http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/334272-trump-told-russians-firing-nut-job-comey-eased-pressure-on-him-report
	"I just fired the head of the F.B.I. He was crazy, a real nut job," Trump said, according to a report based on a summary of the meeting obtained by the Times. 


https://www.infowars.com/breaking-trump-has-been-planning-his-whole-life-to-take-down-nwo/
	BREAKING: Trump Has Been Planning His Whole Life To Take Down [New World Order]
	POTUS has been preparing for this battle for decades


But this time, it is widely reported that U.S. intelligence and President Trump are at odds. It wouldn't make sense to discredit the USIC by tying their activities to Trump's policies. Actually, Russia's propaganda plays-up the fight between the USIC and Trump, and often paints U.S. intelligence as some kind of rouge, all-powerful, all-evil global shadow network that ignores the American public and elected officials:


https://www.infowars.com/cnns-bash-admits-comey-memo-is-deep-state-revenge-against-trump/
	CNN’s Bash Admits Comey Memo is “Deep State” Revenge Against Trump
	They "know how to get back, even if you're the president"


https://www.infowars.com/breaking-deep-state-wants-war-with-russia-to-stop-trump/
	Breaking: Deep State Wants War With Russia To Stop Trump
	Global elite plan on causing worldwide mayhem defeat Trump

	The deep state is pushing war with Russia seeing it as their only option to keep Donald Trump from reviving America.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-06-19/deep-state-operatives-attempt-coup-detat-donald-trump
	Deep State Operatives Attempt A Coup D'Etat Of Donald Trump

	Presidential historian and author Doug Wead claims that the deep state, which has successfully overthrown the governments of foreign countries, is going to continue to actively seek a coup d’etat of the duly elected president of the United States.

	If there was ever a time in history to be concerned about another rise in communism, now is that time. Wead says that the deep state is determined to overthrow Donald Trump. The presidential historian refused to mince words, saying:

    		We have very skilled, talented professionals. They’ve overthrown governments in Vietnam and the Philippines, in Iraq and Iran, in Egypt, in the Ukraine. Duly elected democratic governments.

    		They created what they called 'popular uprisings'...

		Here we go, let's try this is America...

		There's no going back."

	Of course, we should expect nothing less from shadow governments. The very same people who work in the State Department, some of them in intelligence, and some of them in the media, have successfully caused uprisings in several other countries.


http://observer.com/2016/08/did-nsa-try-to-destroy-hillary-clinton/
	Did NSA Try to Destroy Hillary Clinton?

	Allegations are circulating that the National Security Agency may be behind the massive hack of Hillary Clinton and her party

	By John R. Schindler 

	...However, possible NSA culpability has been floated by a far more reputable source recently, and it’s making waves.

	In a recent radio interview, William Binney, a former NSA senior mathematician, stated that disgruntled American spies could be behind the hack of the DNC, adding that NSA is in possession of all of Hillary Clinton’s emails, including the more than 30,000 deleted by the Democratic presidential nominee and her staff in the EmailGate scandal. Let’s be clear: Bill Binney is no flake. ... He became a genuine whistleblower, attempting to raise Congressional awareness of what he viewed as disastrous decisions by NSA leadership. Binney paid a steep price for this, including having his security clearances revoked, causing substantial lost income, while his home was raided by the FBI—which ultimately found no wrongdoing.

	This experience seems to have soured Binney, and since Snowden defected to Moscow in mid-2013, he’s gotten close to the Snowden-Wikileaks axis, which is under Vladimir Putin’s control. He’s not as measured as he used to be in his public comments about NSA...


https://sputniknews.com/us/201605311040567328-loud-clear-binney-nsa/
	William Binney: NSA Surveillance Takes a Page From Nazi Germany


https://sputniknews.com/interviews/201602261035360348-fbi-defrauding-us-public-in-apple-feud/
	Binney accused the government of “a power grab. It is the same fearmongering they did after 9/11 and with cybersecurity and so on. Make people afraid so that you can manipulate them any way you want and they’ll let you do anything that you tell them that you need to do in order to keep them safe.”


https://www.rt.com/op-edge/370465-russia-hacking-claims-nsa-binney/
	Binney said he thinks the accusation is political motivated. One argument has been a neo-con drive towards sustaining military budgets as the country moves from a “war on terror” toward a “new Cold War.”

	“Certainly, that’s behind some of it. Hillary Clinton and a number of people were going that way, and certainly the military intelligence complex fosters that because that means for a “new Cold War” trillions of dollars going into the coffers of those people, they would certainly be advocates for this thing. There is a lot of vested interest to keep this kind of thing going,” Binney added.

	Binney said Julian Assange has already said publicly it was not the Russians, but “a leaker inside.”

	“If the CIA is alleging a different story, they need to produce the evidence like they did on the Chinese hack,” Binney said. “There is no reason to withhold this kind of information, especially if they can prove it and so far as I can see they won’t even brief the House Intelligence Committee on the evidence they are using to make this statement. That tells me that what they are saying is a pack of crap.”

	“That are just concocting these things to support the existing administration and to also support the move toward a new Cold War.”


http://www.globalresearch.ca/intelligence-officer-who-personally-met-the-democratic-email-leaker-confirms-leaker-is-with-american-intelligence-service-not-russia/5562153
	We’ve repeatedly shown that it’s much more likely that American insiders – not Russian hackers – leaked the Clinton emails.

	...Binney has previously explained to us that a Russian hack would have looked very different, and that he thought the hack may have been conducted by an NSA employee who was upset at Clinton’s careless handling of America’s most sensitive intelligence.

	The former intelligence analyst, British Ambassador to Uzbekistan, and chancellor of the University of Dundee (Craig Murray) – who is close friends with Wikileaks’ Julian Assange – said he knows with 100% certainty that the Russians aren’t behind the leaks.


http://observer.com/2016/08/did-nsa-try-to-destroy-hillary-clinton/
	...It’s not difficult to determine why NSA might want to put a halt to Clinton’s presidential ambitions. The agency has viewed her with distaste for years, beginning with her antics as the newly appointed Secretary of State in early 2009, when her demands to disregard basic security regulations about her Blackberry raised the ire of the agency’s information assurance experts. Some at NSA saw the disaster of EmailGate developing, and were powerless to stop it.

	...Disclosure: Donald Trump is the father-in-law of Jared Kushner, the publisher of Observer Media.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2015-09-24/forget-new-world-order-heres-who-really-runs-world?page=1
	Forget The New World Order, Here's Who Really Runs The World

	For decades, extreme ideologies on both the left and the right have clashed over the conspiratorial concept of a shadowy secret government pulling the strings on the world’s heads of state and captains of industry.

	The phrase New World Order is largely derided as a sophomoric conspiracy theory entertained by minds that lack the sophistication necessary to understand the nuances of geopolitics. But it turns out the core idea — one of deep and overarching collusion between Wall Street and government with a globalist agenda — is operational in what a number of insiders call the “Deep State.”


http://beforeitsnews.com/self-sufficiency/2015/11/new-world-order-2016-the-elites-nwo-agenda-is-almost-complete-martial-law-in-u-s-nov-2015-2497348.html
	The CIA, NSA, DIA, and other much more secret entities within the national intelligence community both possess and have access to the most advanced monitoring technologies in the world. Since most of their employees are agents of Deep State first, and answerable to the American people second, they think nothing of “bugging” the POTUS.

	...Key Point: The British Empire had various incentives for establishing its own Deep State with the chartering of the East India Company in 1600.  Likewise, so did all the other empires that came before to include the Roman Empire, the Greek Empire and Pharaonic dynasties of Egypt.  What is less known is that with each successive empire, the Deep State became considerably deeper and broader.  Given the US-UK Empire that currently stretches across the planet, it can be said that Deep State has never been so deep and pervasive, as it is highly proficient in the art of spying and science of surveillance.


I believe this "fight" between the USIC and Trump and the idea of U.S. intelligence agencies going "rouge" would be a key part of any forthcoming plan to discredit the USIC. With Trump (and arguably the current U.S. Congress), the UISC faces a dilemma: how do they protect the American people from elected officials acting on behalf of the hostile foreign power (wittingly or otherwise) while respecting the principles of democracy, limited government, and the law? Our intelligences agencies have to walk a tight-rope: if they do too little, they fail to protect us from a major threat. If they screw up or do too much, it raises questions of our intelligences agencies overstepping their bounds.

This question has been raised essentially in the Congressional hearings on Russia's activities, where some members of Congress skip talking about Russia to focus on leaks to the press from the intelligence community:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	GOWDY: ...FISA and other similar related counterterrorism programs have been described, even this morning, as vital, critical and indispensable to our national security. And many of us on both sides of the aisle believe FISA and similar counterterrorism programs prevent terrorist attacks and save American lives.

	But FISA and other surveillance programs are intentionally designed to preserve the privacy of U.S. citizens. They are intentionally designed to ensure the information is collected and used only for legitimate national security and criminal investigative purposes.

	...The way I view it, Director Comey, the American people have an agreement with their government. We are going to give you the tools to keep us safe, even if it infringes on our privacy Psalm (ph). We're going to give you the tools. And government in return promises to safeguard the privacy of U.S. citizens. And when that deal is broken, it jeopardizes American trust in the surveillance program.

	So let me ask you, do you agree FISA is critical to our national security?

	COMEY: I do.

	GOWDY: Do you agree programs like FISA were intentionally designed to safeguard the identity of U.S. persons?

	COMEY: Yes, there are other -- other important elements of it but that's a primary goal, I believe.

	GOWDY: It wasn't an afterthought, it wasn't an accident. These are intentional safeguards that we put in place to protect U.S. citizens, is that correct?

	COMEY: Correct.

	GOWDY: Do you agree much of what is learned from these programs is classified or otherwise legally protected?

	COMEY: All FISA applications review by the court collection by us pursuant to our FISA authority is classified.

	GOWDY: The dissemination of which is a felony punishable by up to 10 years in prison?

	COMEY: Sure, dissemination -- unauthorized dissemination. GOWDY: Unauthorized dissemination of classified or otherwise legally protected material punishable by a felony up to 10 years in federal prison.

	COMEY: Yes. Yes, as it should be.

	GOWDY: All right.

	In January of this year, the Washington Post reported, according to a senior U.S. government official, a named U.S. citizen -- and I will not use the name -- a named U.S. citizen phoned the Russian ambassador several times on December 29.

	In February of this year, the Washington Post reported nine, nine current and former officials who were in senior positions at multiple agencies at the time of the call, spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence matters and that officials began pouring over intelligence reports, intercepted communications, and diplomatic cables.

	In February of this year, the New York Times reported a U.S. citizen, whose name I will not use, discusses sanctions with the Russian ambassador in a phone call according to officials who have seen a transcript of the wiretapped conversation. And again in February of this year, the New York Times reported on a phone call involving a U.S. citizen including significant discussions of phone records, intercepted calls, intercepted communications, and reported the NSA captured calls and then asked the FBI to collect as much information as possible.

	My time is up so I will say this for this round. I thought it was against the law to disseminate classified information. Is it?

	COMEY: Yes, sir. It's a serious crime. I'm not going to comment on those particular articles because I don't want to, in any circumstance, compound a criminal act by confirming that it was classified information but in general, yes, it's a serious crime and it should be for the reasons you said.

	GOWDY: We'll take it back up next round, Mr. Chairman.


http://insider.foxnews.com/2017/05/24/gowdy-surveillance-programs-wont-be-reauthorized-until-unmasking-questions-answered
	Gowdy: Surveillance Programs Won't Be Renewed Until 'Unmasking' Questions Answered

	Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-SC) said this morning that key surveillance programs won't be reauthorized by Congress until questions about intelligence "unmasking" are answered. 


(Also FWIW, Gowdy is suspicious for a lot of reasons, which could be the subject of their own write-up...


https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2013/05/why-calls-impeachment-obama-are-inevitable/315338/
	Why Calls for Impeachment of Obama Are Inevitable

	Could what happened in Benghazi lead to an impeachment of the president?

	John McCain, asked about the issue on ABC yesterday, said he didn't know "what level of scandal, unquote, this rises to," but that a "select committee" was needed to interview those involved.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/right-turn/post/doesnt-obama-owe-us-answers/2012/10/29/965da2fa-21d2-11e2-8448-81b1ce7d6978_blog.html
	SCHIEFFER: Well, I was just going to say, senator, you have called for declassifying the drone pictures. Apparently there were drone pictures. Why — have you seen those pictures, senator?

	MCCAIN: No, I have not. But what I do know is, that those in the surveillance records from inside and around the consulate will show that there was no demonstration. The Turkish ambassador left his — the consulate and said good-bye to Chris Stevens at 8:30 at night. There was no demonstration.

	So for literally days and days, they told the American people something that had no basis in fact whatsoever. And that is the president of the United States. And so, also, by the way, he said he immediately ordered action to be taken. Well, no action was taken over seven hours. Now we find out the secretary of Defense decided not to take any action.

	You know, somebody the other day said to me this is as bad as Watergate. Well, nobody died in Watergate. But this is either a massive cover-up or incompetence that is not acceptable service to the American people.


https:/www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/10/22/transcript-clinton-testifies-before-house-committee-on-benghazi/
	POMPEO: There was an e-mail that was from Mr. Blumenthal and (inaudible) before that, also discussing the same situation. Do you know who Mark Turrey (ph) is?

	CLINTON: No, I don't recall that I know who that is.

	POMPEO: He was a private trafficker in weapons. He was working with Mr. Stevens and attempting to develop an authorization with the State Department so that he could in fact deliver those weapons into Libya. Does that -- any of that ring a bell to you?

	CLINTON: No, it does not.

	POMPEO: So you never saw the e-mail that was from Mr. Stevens to -- I think it went to Mr. Sullivan, where he says to Mr. Turrey (ph), this is Mr. Stevens now, says to Mr. Turrey (ph): "Thank you for this information" -- this information about his attempts to get authority to ship arms into Libya. He says, "Thank you for this information. I'll keep it in mind and share it with my colleagues in Washington. Regards, Chris." Actually, "regards, Chris Stevens."

	CLINTON: I -- I don't know anything about that specifically. 


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/10/marc-turi-libyan-rebels-hillary-clinton-229115
	Obama DOJ drops charges against alleged broker of Libyan weapons

	Arms dealer had threatened to expose Hillary Clinton’s talks about arming anti-Qadhafi rebels.

	The Obama administration is moving to dismiss charges against an arms dealer it had accused of selling weapons that were destined for Libyan rebels.

	Lawyers for the Justice Department on Monday filed a motion in federal court in Phoenix to drop the case against the arms dealer, an American named Marc Turi, whose lawyers also signed the motion.

	The deal averts a trial that threatened to cast additional scrutiny on Hillary Clinton’s private emails as Secretary of State, and to expose reported Central Intelligence Agency attempts to arm rebels fighting Libyan leader Moammar Qadhafi.

	...Representatives of the Justice Department, the White House and Clinton’s presidential campaign either declined to comment or did not respond to requests for comment on the case or the settlement.

	Turi was indicted in 2014 on four felony counts: two of arms dealing in violation of the Arms Export Control Act and two of lying to the State Department in official applications. The charges accused Turi of claiming that the weapons involved were destined for Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, when the arms were actually intended to reach Libya.


http://www.latimes.com/world/africa/la-fg-house-benghazi-20141123-story.html
	GOP panel on Benghazi finds no Obama administration wrongdoing 

	...After the attacks, Republicans criticized the Obama administration and its then-secretary of State, Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is expected to run for president in 2016.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/wp/2016/06/28/house-benghazi-report-reveals-little-new-information-about-hillary-clinton/
	Rep. Trey Gowdy on Tuesday defended his committee’s lengthy and expansive Benghazi probe, saying that it was intended to reveal the facts and not to torpedo Hillary Clinton’s presidential chances.

	The South Carolina Republican, a former federal prosecutor, insisted that former House speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) and current speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) never “asked me to do anything about presidential politics” on the panel, which was formed in May 2014.

	“My job is to report facts,” Gowdy told reporters. “You can draw whatever conclusions you want to draw.”

	...Gowdy has said the email server was never a focus of his investigation, but the discovery has sparked several probes and dogged Clinton’s presidential bid.


https://www.infowars.com/trey-gowdy-says-no-to-impeachment-have-you-met-joe-biden/
	Trey Gowdy says no to impeachment: ‘Have you met Joe Biden?’
	Cited a number of reasons why impeachment would be folly

	Republican bulldog Rep. Trey Gowdy put the kibosh on the idea of impeaching President Obama during a nationally television Fox News interview, telling his broadcast audience that booting the commander-in-chief from his office would open the doors to something even worse —the ascension of Vice President Joseph R. Biden.


http://www.nbcnews.com/id/37982175/ns/us_news-security/t/spy-case-us-russia-play-down-fallout/
	The scandal over an alleged Russian spy ring erupted at an awkward time for a White House that has staked its foreign policy record on improved cooperation with Moscow, but it appeared unlikely to do lasting damage to U.S.-Russian relations.

	The administration sought to dampen tensions, while the Russian government offered the conciliatory hope Tuesday that U.S. authorities would "show proper understanding, taking into account the positive character of the current stage of development of Russian-American relations."

	The White House response was notably restrained following the dramatic announcement that 11 people assigned a decade or more to illegally infiltrate American society had been arrested. They are accused of using fake names and claims of U.S. citizenship to burrow into U.S. society and ferret out intelligence as Russian "illegals" — spies operating without diplomatic cover.

	White House spokesman Robert Gibbs labored to show that the arrests were a law enforcement matter — one not driven by the president, even though President Barack Obama was informed — and played down any political consequences.

	Obama was asked about the matter by reporters twice Tuesday. He declined to comment both times. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/three-white-house-officials-tied-to-files-shared-with-house-intelligence-chairman/2017/03/30/de4b8c30-1589-11e7-9e4f-09aa75d3ec57_story.html
	The interview took place after the New York Times reported that the Obama White House, fearing the new administration would sweep it under the rug, had spread information about Russian efforts to undermine the presidential election. Farkas said, “I was urging my former colleagues and . . . the Hill people, get as much information as you can, get as much intelligence as you can, before President Obama leaves the administration.”

	“That’s why there were so many leaks,” said Farkas, now a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council.

	...Farkas, in an interview with The Post, said she “didn’t give anybody anything except advice,” was not a source for any stories and had nothing to leak. Noting that she left government in October 2015, she said, “I was just watching like anybody else, like a regular spectator” as initial reports of Russia contacts began to surface after the election.

	As a former staff member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and a former Defense official involved with Russian affairs, she said she “got worried” that the Obama White House was not briefing Congress on what it knew. “I know how the Russians operate,” she said, and called former colleagues to make sure Congress was being informed.


http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/presidential-races/305065-obama-on-election-the-sun-will-rise-in-the-morning
	Obama on election: 'The sun will rise in the morning'


http://money.cnn.com/2016/12/16/technology/obama-us-vulnerable-to-hacking/
	US more vulnerable to hacking than Russia, Obama says


http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/cia-prepping-possible-cyber-strike-against-russia-n666636
	CIA Prepping for Possible Cyber Strike Against Russia

	Vice President Joe Biden told “Meet the Press” moderator Chuck Todd on Friday that “we’re sending a message” to Putin and that “it will be at the time of our choosing, and under the circumstances that will have the greatest impact.” 


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NXUgqzXMvyQ
	VP Joe Biden Says Russians Should have taken Rush Limbaugh in Spy Swap


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/23/house-oversight-no-russia-investigation-trey-gowdy-239904
	Gowdy: Oversight panel won't pursue Russia, obstruction probes

	His approach differs sharply from that of outgoing Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz, who is resigning at the end of June

	Newly-elected House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Trey Gowdy does not plan to investigate Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election or questions of whether President Donald Trump obstructed justice.)


This is why the appearance of "fake Trump scandals" like Trump leaking the classified name of a city or Kushner wanting a Russian back-channel are important. Leaking classified information is illegal, no matter how important that information is for the public to know. But the American system is designed to stifle tyranny--if the President has abused his power, and that information is classified, leaking that information is in line with the spirit of the law, if not the letter of the law.

But what if U.S. intelligence agencies leaked evidence of Presidential abuse of power that is misleading, even falsified? What if that information lead to the President's impeachment? The scandal would be spectacular--as would the stain on the intelligence community.

This is what I believe Russian intelligence is planning next: creating a massive and mostly fake scandal, ostensibly to take down Trump, that will instead take down the mainstream media and U.S. intelligence agencies.

Much of why I suspect this comes from taking a closer look at the actions of former FBI Director Comey. Recently, a lot of people have been pushing the idea that Trump should be impeached specifically for firing Comey. But an impeachment featuring Trump's word versus Comey's would be, to put it lightly, a political minefield.

Part of this comes from Comey's strange affinity for the aforementioned dirty dossier, featured in his recent testimony. But maybe the biggest mine in the minefield is Comey's double-standard in his handling of Clinton's email case and Trump's obstruction of justice case. The gist of it is that Comey has set up himself and his word to be the linchpin of an impeachment case against Trump, while simultaneously setting up himself to be easily discredited in a highly politicized way, taking the case--and potentially the credibility of the USIC and mainstream media--down with him.

On March 10, 2015, Secretary Clinton made the following pubic statements about her use of a private email server for State Department business:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/

	Hillary Rodham Clinton said Tuesday that "it would have been probably smarter" to use two e-mail accounts during her time as secretary of state. Here is a complete transcript of her remarks.

	...Now, I would be pleased to talk more about this important matter, but I know there have been questions about my email, so I want to address that directly, and then I will take a few questions from you.

	There are four things I want the public to know.

	First, when I got to work as secretary of state, I opted for convenience to use my personal email account, which was allowed by the State Department, because I thought it would be easier to carry just one device for my work and for my personal emails instead of two.

	Looking back, it would've been better if I'd simply used a second email account and carried a second phone, but at the time, this didn't seem like an issue.

	Second, the vast majority of my work emails went to government employees at their government addresses, which meant they were captured and preserved immediately on the system at the State Department.

	Third, after I left office, the State Department asked former secretaries of state for our assistance in providing copies of work- related emails from our personal accounts. I responded right away and provided all my emails that could possibly be work-related, which totalled roughly 55,000 printed pages, even though I knew that the State Department already had the vast majority of them. We went through a thorough process to identify all of my work- related emails and deliver them to the State Department. At the end, I chose not to keep my private personal emails -- emails about planning Chelsea's wedding or my mother's funeral arrangements, condolence notes to friends as well as yoga routines, family vacations, the other things you typically find in inboxes.

	No one wants their personal emails made public, and I think most people understand that and respect that privacy.

	Fourth, I took the unprecedented step of asking that the State Department make all my work-related emails public for everyone to see.

	I am very proud of the work that I and my colleagues and our public servants at the department did during my four years as secretary of state, and I look forward to people being able to see that for themselves.

	Again, looking back, it would've been better for me to use two separate phones and two email accounts. I thought using one device would be simpler, and obviously, it hasn't worked out that way.


And also:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	...I did not email any classified material to anyone on my email. There is no classified material.


As it turns out, Clinton's statements were less than truthful. Lying to the public isn't illegal, but a person's lies can be used in court to show intent or guilt. When Comey declined to indict Clinton and later testified about his decision, he did a pretty bad job of taking that into account. Related to this, Comey also made some unusual decisions and statements about the case, which are illuminating as to his character and possible intentions. It's worth looking at in detail.


Claim #1: Clinton never sent or received anything classified:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	 March 10, 2015

	QUESTION: Were you ever -- were you ever specifically briefed on the security implications of using -- using your own email server and using your personal address to email with the president?

	CLINTON: I did not email any classified material to anyone on my email. There is no classified material.

	So I'm certainly well-aware of the classification requirements and did not send classified material.


https://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/24/us/politics/inquiry-is-sought-in-hillary-clinton-email-account.html
	Inquiry Sought in Hillary Clinton’s Use of Email

	JULY 23, 2015

	Two inspectors general have asked the Justice Department to open an investigation into whether sensitive government information was mishandled in connection with the personal email account Hillary Rodham Clinton used as secretary of state, senior government officials said Thursday.

	The request follows an assessment in a June 29 memo by the inspectors general for the State Department and the intelligence agencies that Mrs. Clinton’s private account contained “hundreds of potentially classified emails.”


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/week-transcript-sen-bernie-sanders-gov-bobby-jindal/story?id=33383476
	July 26, 2015 

	CLINTON: I am confident that I never sent nor received any information that was classified at the time it was sent and received.


http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/hillary-clinton-emails-contained-info-above-top-secret-ig-n499886
 	Jan 19 2016, 5:31 pm ET
	Hillary Clinton Emails Held Info Beyond Top Secret: IG

	Emails from Hillary Clinton’s home server contained information classified at levels higher than previously known, including a level meant to protect some of the most sensitive U.S. intelligence


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/01/hillary-clinton-email-top-secret-classification-218030
	Clinton: Email classification changes 'nothing'
	01/20/2016 

	Hillary Clinton’s “top secret” email classification changes “nothing,” the former secretary of state said Wednesday.

	“I'm just going to leave it up to the professionals at the Justice Department, because nothing that this says changes the fact that I never sent or received material marked classified”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/10/22/transcript-clinton-testifies-before-house-committee-on-benghazi/
	JORDAN: And that first statement in March was not accurate. In March, you said no classified information was sent or received on your personal accounts. You later revised your statement and said no information marked classified was sent or received on your personal account.

	And once again, your revised statement was after the inspector general for the intelligence community had examined your e-mails and determined that, yes, some indeed were classified.

	CLINTON: There was nothing marked classified on my e-mails, either sent or received. And I want to respond...

	JORDAN: You used the write term there. Used "marked". That's the one -- that's what you -- you used the revised statement there.

	CLINTON: ...well -- but that's -- well, Congressman, there was a lot of confusion because many -- many Americans have no idea how the classification process works.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
	
	...CLINTON could not recall any briefing or training by State related to the retention of federal records or handling of classified information.


https://careers.state.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/What-Every-New-Employee-Needs-to-Know.pdf
	THE ABC’S: What Every New Employee Needs to Know
	June 2011

	...Before new State Department employees (including PSC, WAE and new hire contract employees) can be issued a building pass indicating they hold a security clearance, they are required to attend a security briefing that reviews Department of State procedures for handling classified information.


https://foia.state.gov/searchapp/DOCUMENTS/HRC_NDAS/1/DOC_0C05833708/C05833708.pdf
	CLASSIFIED INFORMATION NONDISCLOSURE AGREEMENT

	AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN	Hillary Rodham Clinton	AND THE UNITED STATES

	...I hereby acknowledge that I have received a security indoctrination concerning the nature and protection of classified information

	...As used in this Agreement, classified information is marked or unmarked classified information

	...I have been advised that the unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized retention, or negligent handling of classified information by me could cause damage or irreparable injury to the United States

	...I have been advised that any unauthorized disclosure of classified information by me may constitute a violation, or violations, of United States criminal laws, including the provisions of Sections 641, 793, 798, *952 and 1924, Title 18...

	SIGNATURE: H R Clinton	DATE: 22-01-2009


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	DESANTIS: And of that top secret information you found, would somebody who is sophisticated in those matters, should it have been obvious to them that was sensitive information?

	COMEY: Yes.

	DESANTIS: So I guess my issue about knowledge of what you’re doing is, in order for Secretary Clinton to have access to top secret, SCI FBI information, didn’t she have to sign a form with the State Department acknowledging her duties and responsibilities under the law to safeguard this information?

	COMEY: Yes. Anybody who gets access to SCI, Sensitive Compartmented Information would sign a read-in form that lays that out. I’m sure members of Congress have seen the same thing.

	DESANTIS: And it stresses in that document and other training people would get, that there are certain requirements to handling certain levels of information. For example, a top secret document, that can’t even be on your secret system at the FBI, correct?

	COMEY: Correct.

	DESANTIS: So you have to follow certain guidelines. And I guess my question is, is she’s very sophisticated person, she did execute that document, correct?

	COMEY: Yes.


http://insider.foxnews.com/2016/10/22/hillary-clinton-appears-lecture-state-department-colleagues-cyber-security-email-server
	A new video has surfaced that appears to show then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton recording a video warning her colleagues about the dangers of insufficient cyber security.

	"Protecting our cyber infrastructure and digital networks has to be a matter of national security," Clinton says in the video.

	"I think this is a responsibility we all share as Americans, but as state department employees, we have a special duty to guard ourselves and our sensitive information."


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/10/22/transcript-clinton-testifies-before-house-committee-on-benghazi/
	CLINTON: ...And therefore I wanted to make it clear that there is a system within our government, certainly within the State Department...

	JORDAN: (inaudible) one more question (inaudible).

	CLINTON: ...where material that is thought to be classified is marked such, so that people have the opportunity to know how they are supposed to be handling those materials...

	
https://fam.state.gov/fam/05fam/05fam0480.html
	Each portion of a document containing classified information, ordinarily a paragraph but including the subject line, headers, summaries, tables or graphics, must be marked to indicate its classification level, or that it is unclassified, by placing one of the parenthetical symbols listed below immediately preceding the portion to which it applies.  Subject line and header portion markings may appear after the text.

	MARKING SYMBOLS
	(TS) = Top Secret       (S) = Secret
	(C) = Confidential     (SBU) = Sensitive But Unclassified     (U) = Unclassified

	...Information marked with a classification level under this or predecessor orders should be considered classified at that level of classification despite the omission of other required markings.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/10/22/transcript-clinton-testifies-before-house-committee-on-benghazi/
	JORDAN: I got -- I got one second.

	CLINTON: ...and that's why it became clearer, I believe, to say that nothing was marked classified at the time I sent or received it.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	After reviewing an email dated April 9, 2012, with subject line "Call to President Banda," CLINTON stated she did not remember the email specifically. When asked what the parenthetical "C" meant before a paragraph within the captioned email, CLINTON stated she did not know and could only speculate it was referencing paragraphs marked in alphabetical documents.


https://foia.state.gov/searchapp/DOCUMENTS/HRCEmail_Jan29thWeb/O-2015-08637HCE10/DOC_0C05796118/C05796118.pdf
	To: H
	Cc: Huma Abedin
	Subject: Call to President Banda

	I'm sorry for the late email but we just received a call sheet for Malawi President Banda.

	Are you open to taking this at 7:30am tomorrow? If so, we can reach out overnight. Otherwise, we will find other widows that work tomorrow for you.

	This did not make it with the pouch but we can ask Marina to print this and her bio for you if a 7:30am call works for both you and President Banda.

	The Secretary's Call Sheet for Malawi President Joyce Banda

	(C) Purpose of Call: To offer condolences on the passing of President Mutharika and congratulate President Banda on her recent swearing in.

	[REDACTED]


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	After reviewing an email dated [REDACTED] with subject line [REDACTED], CLINTON stated she did not remember the email specifically. ...CLINTON relayed State did the best they could while considering the "constant barrage of press" trying to confirm drone strikes. CLINTON stated [REDACTED] must have believed this email was "SBU" because that was how he marked it. CLINTON understood SBU to mean Sensitive But Unclassified.


https://foia.state.gov/searchapp/DOCUMENTS/HRCEmail_NovWeb/267/DOC_0C05791537/C05791537.pdf
	To: H

	...(C) Purpose of Call: Join Special Envoy (JSE) Kofi Annan has requested...

	- (SBU) Appreciation for Annan's role, Continued Support for U.N...

	- (SBU) Solicit Annan's Views: [REDACTED]

	- (SBU) (IF RAISED) UNSMIS Update: I was concerned to hear about the July 30 attack against a UNSMIS convoy, and...

	- (SBU) Background: Kofi Annan was appointed UN-Arab League Joint Special Envoy...


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	MEADOWS: So a reasonable person who has been a Senator, a Secretary of State, a First Lady, wouldn’t a reasonable person know that that was a classified marking? As a secretary of state, a reasonable person? That’s all I’m asking.

	COMEY: Before this investigation, I probably would have said, yes. I’m not so sure. I don’t find it incredibly…

	MEADOWS: Director Comey, come on.

	I mean, I have only been here a few years and I understand the importance of those markings. So you’re suggesting that a long length of time that she had no idea what a classified marking would be? That’s your sworn testimony today?

	COMEY: No, no, not that she would have no idea what a classified marking would be, but it’s an interesting question as to — the question about sophistication came up earlier — whether she was sophisticated enough to understand what a “c” means.

	MEADOWS: So you’re saying the former Secretary of State is not sophisticated enough to understand a classified marking?

	COMEY: That’s not what I said.

	MEADOWS: That’s a huge statement.

	COMEY: That’s not what I said. You asked me did I assume someone would know. Probably before the investigation, I would have, I’m not so sure of that answer any longer. I think it’s possible — possible that she didn’t understand what a “c” meant when she saw it in the body of the e-mail like that.

	MEADOWS: After years in the Senate and Secretary of State, I mean, that’s hard for me and the American people to believe, Director Comey. And I’m not questioning your analysis of it, but wouldn’t a reasonable person think that someone who has the highest job of handling classified information would understand that?

	COMEY: I think that’s the conclusion a reasonable person would draw. It may not be accurate…


https://wikileaks.org/plusd/?qproject[]=cg&q=&s=%22-C-%22&qforigin=Secretary+of+State&qsort=tdesc#result
	Date			Subject						From
	Sun, 28 Feb 2010	(C) KUDOS FOR REPORTING ON AFGHANISTAN'S E...	Secretary of State
	Sun, 28 Feb 2010	SUBJECT: (U) KUDOS FOR UZBEKISTAN REPORTIN...	Secretary of State
	Sun, 28 Feb 2010	(U) SUDAN: OIL AND WEALTH SHARING (C-AL9-0...	Secretary of State
	Sun, 28 Feb 2010	(U) VIETNAM: KUDOS FOR TO HUY RUA REPORT (...	Secretary of State
	Fri, 19 Feb 2010	HUMAN RIGHTS VETTING FOR U.S.-SPONSORED TR...	Secretary of State
	Tue, 16 Feb 2010	(U) SUDAN AND REGIONAL ACTORS (C-AL9-02504...	Secretary of State
	Tue, 16 Feb 2010	(U) KUDOS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS FOR REPO...	Secretary of State
	Tue, 16 Feb 2010	(C) KUDOS FOR REPORTING ON NEW RUSSIAN AMB...	Secretary of State
	Tue, 16 Feb 2010	(U) REQUEST FOR INFORMATION: AZERBAIJANI L...	Secretary of State
	Fri, 29 Jan 2010	(S/REL UK) ARGENTINE REACTION TO POTENTIAL...	Secretary of State
	Fri, 29 Jan 2010	(U) CHINA: POWER PLANTS AND ELECTRICITY GR...	Secretary of State
	Fri, 29 Jan 2010	(C) CHINA'S RELATIONS WITH THE VATICAN (C-...	Secretary of State
	Thu, 28 Jan 2010	(U) COSTA RICA FEBRUARY 2010 PRESIDENTIAL ...	Secretary of State
	Thu, 28 Jan 2010	(SBU) REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON MALTA LEA...	Secretary of State
	Thu, 28 Jan 2010	(SBU) REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON PORTUGAL'...	Secretary of State
	Thu, 28 Jan 2010	(C) REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON ITALY-RUSSI...	Secretary of State
	Thu, 28 Jan 2010	(C) CHINA: RELATIONS WITH THE VATICAN (C-A...	Secretary of State
	Fri, 22 Jan 2010	(C) REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON TURKISH DEP...	Secretary of State
	Fri, 22 Jan 2010	(C) REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON THE POLITIC...	Secretary of State
	Fri, 22 Jan 2010	(C/NF) KUDOS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS FOR B...	Secretary of State


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	BUCK: And there is no doubt about those two elements. Now I don’t know whether the next element is one element or two, but it talks about knowingly removed such materials without authority and with the intent to retain such material at an unauthorized location.

	So I’m going to treat those as two separate parts of the intent element. First of all, do you see the word “willfully” anywhere in this statute?

	COMEY: I don’t.

	BUCK: And that would indicate to you that there is a lower threshold for intent?

	COMEY: No, it wouldn’t.

	BUCK: Why?

	COMEY: Because we often — as I understand, the Justice Department’s practice and judicial practice will impute to any criminal statute at that level with a knowingly also requirement that you know that you’re involved in criminal activity of some sort. A general mens rea requirement.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/10/22/transcript-clinton-testifies-before-house-committee-on-benghazi/
	BROOKS: ...so then when your compound took a second attack on June 6th, when a bomb blew a wall through the compound then, no e-mails, no e-mails at all. But I am interested in knowing who were you meeting with, who were you huddling with, how were you informed about those things? Because there is nothing in the e-mails that talks about two significant attacks on our compounds in 2012. There was a lot of information in 2011 about issues and security posture and yet nothing in 2012.

	CLINTON: Well, I'd be happy to explain. Every morning when I arrived at the State Department, usually between 8:00 and 8:30, I had a personal one-on-one briefing from the representative of the Central Intelligence Agency who shared with me the highest level of classified information that I was to be aware of on a daily basis.

	...During the day, I received hundreds of pages of memos, many of them classified, some of them so top secret they were brought into my office in a locked briefcase that I had to read and immediately return to the courier. 


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	CLINTON did not have any conversations regarding procedures if any potentially classified information was discovered during the review of her emails because she had no reason to believe classified information would be found in her email account.


https://foia.state.gov/searchapp/DOCUMENTS/HRCEmail_Jan29thWeb/O-2015-08640HCE10/DOC_0C05794417/C05794417.pdf
	From: Sullivan, Jacob J [mailto:SullivanJJ@state.gov]
	To: H

	This is pretty interesting. This is CSCC proving its mettle.


	From: H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
	To: 'sullivanjj@state.gov'
	Cc: 'reinesp@state.gov'

	If not classified or otherwise inappropriate, can you send to the NYTimes reporters who interviewed me today? Copying Philippe.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	pg 20

	When asked of her knowledge regarding TOP SECRET, SECRET, and CONFIDENTIAL classification levels of USG information, Clinton responded that she did not pay attention to the "level" of classification and took all classified information seriously.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	After reviewing an email dated June 17, 2011, with subject line [REDACTED], CLINTON stated she did not remember the email specifically. CLINTON stated a "nonpaper" was a document with no official heading, or identifying marks of any kind, that can not be attributed to the US Government. ...When viewing the displayed email, CLINTON believed she was asking SULLIVAN to remove the State letterhead and provide unclassified talking points. CLINTON stated she had no intention to remove classification markings. CLINTON had no recollection of actually receiving a "nonpaper" or a secure fax in this instance. [REDACTED] talking points are typically classified, but CLINTON did not recall in this instance.


https://foia.state.gov/searchapp/DOCUMENTS/HRCEmail_SeptemberWeb/O-2015-08632-172/DOC_0C05781205/C05781205.pdf
	Sent: Thursday, June 16, 2011 09:49 AM
	To: H
	
	...Also, we got word that Lavrov is travelling tomorrow and hasn't indicated whether or not he will be able to talk tomorrow morning. And still no work from Al-Faisal. Ops is still trying on both--and I'll keep you apprised of any updates.


https://foia.state.gov/searchapp/DOCUMENTS/HRCEmail_Jan7thWeb/O-2015-08635-JAN7-2/DOC_0C05787519/C05787519.pdf
	From: Sullivan, Jacob J [mailto:SullivanJJ@state.gov]
	Sent: Thursday, June 16, 2011 05:51 PM
	To: H
	Subject: Fw: [REDACTED]

	You'll get the tps this eve. They're coming together.


https://foia.state.gov/searchapp/DOCUMENTS/HRCEmail_OctWeb/220/DOC_0C05787515/C05787515.pdf
	Sent: Thursday, June 16, 2011 08:50 PM
	To: H
	Subject: Calls

	Ms-
	Huma asked me to set up these 2 calls for you tomorrow morning (after your 730 am saakashvilli call)

	...Also, we've been unable to lock in lavrov and al-faisal. Will keep you posted on any developments there, too (although it seems unlikely for tomorrow morning).


https://foia.state.gov/searchapp/DOCUMENTS/HRCEmail_OctWeb/220/DOC_0C05787515/C05787515.pdf
	Sent: Friday, June 17, 2011 06:02 AM
	To: H
	Subject: Re: Calls

	Lavrov is locked in for 8am this morning. Still waiting for an update on the 2 sudan calls. Will keep you posted.


https://foia.state.gov/searchapp/DOCUMENTS/HRCEmail_DecWeb/O-2015-08632-DEC/DOC_0C05781255/C05781255.pdf	Sent: Friday, June 17, 2011 7:36 AM
	To: H
	Subject: Lavrov additional points

	Alice asked that I pass along to you these additional points for lavrov:
	A couple of updates regarding the Lavrov call:

	- Libya: Russian Special Envoy Margelov was in Tripoli yesterday, where he met senior officials (but not Qadhafi), who confirmed that Qadhafi insists on remaining in the country. PM Mahmudi, in a two-hour press conference with journalists, said Qadhafi's departure was a "red-line" for the regime.
	1267: In NY yesterday, our teams reached agreement on a text, [REDACTED]...


https://foia.state.gov/searchapp/DOCUMENTS/HRCEmail_Jan7thWeb/O-2015-08635-JAN7-2/DOC_0C05787519/C05787519.pdf
	From: H [mailto:HDR22@clintonemail.com]
	Sent: Friday, June 17, 2011 07:52 AM
	To: Sullivan, Jacob J
	Subject: Re: [REDACTED]

	I didn't get the TPs yet.


	From: Sullivan, Jacob J
	Sent: Friday, June 17, 2011 08:00 PM
	To: 'HDR22@clintonemail.com' <HDR22@clintonemail.com>
	Subject: Re: [REDACTED]

	?!!! Checking

	
	From: Sullivan Jacob J [mailto:SullivanJJ@state.gov]
	Sent: Friday, June 17, 2011 08:17 AM
	To: H
	Subject Re: [REDACTED]

	They say they've had issues sending secure fax. They're working on it.


	From: H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
	Sent: Friday, June 17, 2011 08:21 AM
	To: 'sullivanjj@state.gov' 
	Subject: Re: [REDACTED]

	If they can't, turn into nonpaper w no identifying heading and send nonsecure.


https://foia.state.gov/searchapp/DOCUMENTS/HRCEmail_DecWeb/O-2015-08635-DEC/DOC_0C05787582/C05787582.pdf
	From: H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
	Sent: Friday, June 17, 2011 4:14 PM
	To: 'sullivanjj@state.gov'

	Cardin said he'd be happy to see Phil and Mike as soon as possible and was pleased to hear both we and, to a limited extent, Russia had taken some actions as I described from the tps.


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	CHAFFETZ: So Hillary Clinton sends to Jake Sullivan, Jake — well let me go back, Jake Sullivan says they say they had issues sending secure fax, they’re working on it. Hillary Clinton sends to Jake Sullivan, if they can’t, turn into non-paper with no identifying heading and send non-secure. So you’re telling me it’s a classified piece of information, she’s taking off the header and she’s instructing them to send it in a non-secure format. Is that not intent?

	COMEY: Well that actually caught my attention when I first saw it and what she explained to us in her interview was, and other witnesses too as well, is what she meant by that is make it into a non-classified document, that’s what a non-paper is in their world, and send it to us because I don’t need the classified stuff I just need the…

	CHAFFETZ: Then why take off the heading if it’s going to be turned into a non-classified document, why take off the heading?

	COMEY: I assume because it would be non-classified anymore so you wouldn’t have a classified header on it. Because what she said during her interview…


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	MEADOWS: All right.

	So let me in the last little portion of this, in your three and a half-hour interview on Saturday, did she contradict some of these public statements in private? Because you said she didn’t lie to the FBI, but it’s apparent that she lied to the American people. So did she change her statements in that sworn testimony with you last Saturday?

	COMEY: I haven’t gone through that to parse that…


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	MICA: ...I have questions about how this came down. Did you personally interview the secretary on Saturday morning?

	COMEY: I didn’t personally, no.

	MICA: How many agents did?

	COMEY: I think we had five or six.

	MICA: Did you talk to all of those agents after the interview?

	COMEY: I did not speak to all of them, no.

	...MICA: ...But all of the agents, did they meet with you and then is that the group that said that we all vote to not recommend prosecution?

	COMEY: I did not meet with all of the agents. I’ve met with — I guess I’ve — I’ve met with all of them…


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	DESJARLAIS: OK. Do you know, in reading the review or the summary, did they ask Hillary Clinton about her comment that she had never sent or received classified information over private e-mail?

	COMEY: I think so, but I can’t — I can’t remember specifically.

	DESJARLAIS: OK.

	COMEY: It’s a very long, 302. I’d have to check and then get back to you.

	DESJARLAIS: OK. And we’ll get access to that.

	Do you know if they asked her when she said that there was nothing marked classified on my e-mails sent or received?

	COMEY: Same answer. I’m not sure.


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	MULVANEY: Thank you gentleman. Director Comey, earlier today you heard a long list of statements that Ms. Clinton has made previously, both to the public and to Congress that were not factually accurate.

	I think you went down the whole long list. When she met with you folks on Saturday last week, I take it she didn’t say the same things at that interview?

	COMEY: I’m not equipped sitting here without the 302 in front of me to answer in that broad…

	MULVANEY: But it’s your — it’s your testimony…


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	...CHAFFETZ: Because she wanted to be technically correct, is that what you’re saying, that you’re…

	COMEY: No, I think what she said during the interview is I was telling him in essence, send the unclassified document, take the header off, turn it into a non-paper, which is a term I had never heard before but I’m told by people I credit that in diplomatic circles something we can pass to another government…

	CHAFFETZ: You are very generous in your accepting of that.


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	GOWDY: Thank you Doctor Gosar. Director Comey, I want to go back to the issue of intent for just a second. We could disagree on whether or not it’s an element of the offense, let’s assume for the sake of argument, that you’re right and I’m wrong and that it is an element of the offense.

	Secretary Clinton said that she was, “Well aware of classification requirements”. Those are her words, not mine and not yours. So if she were, “Well aware of classification requirements”, how did that impact your analysis of her intent? Because I’ve heard you this morning, describe her as being less than sophisticated. She disagrees with that.

	COMEY: Well, I was talking about technical sophistication. The question is, I would hope everybody who works in the Government is aware of classification requirements...


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	CLINTON was aware she was an Original Classification Authority (OCA) at State. CLINTON could not recall how often she used this authority 


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	 ...[COMEY:] The question then is, if you mishandle classified information, when you did that thing, did you know you were doing something that was unlawful? That’s the intent question.


http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2015/10/15/source-fbi-probe-clinton-email-focused-on-gross-negligence-provision.html
	Source: FBI probe of Clinton email focused on ‘gross negligence’ provision

	...Under 18 USC 793 subsection F...


https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/18/793
	18 U.S. Code § 793 - Gathering, transmitting or losing defense information

	...(f) Whoever, being entrusted with or having lawful possession or control of any document, writing, code book, signal book, sketch, photograph, photographic negative, blueprint, plan, map, model, instrument, appliance, note, or information, relating to the national defense, (1) through gross negligence permits the same to be removed from its proper place of custody...


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/10/22/transcript-clinton-testifies-before-house-committee-on-benghazi/
	POMPEO: ...One -- you talked earlier about Mr. Katala (ph), who is sitting in a prison cell not too far from where you and I are sitting here this evening. I, too, share your view that I'm glad that we've pulled one of the terrorists who murdered -- was involved in the murder of U.S. government people on that night.

	When that attack took place, Mr. Katala (ph), according to the indictment from the Justice Department, Mr. Katala (ph) and his folks removed documents from the temporary mission facility. Were you aware of that?

	CLINTON: Yes, we later became aware that documents had been removed, but there was no classified documents at Benghazi.

	POMPEO: And how do you know that?

	CLINTON: We know it through our own investigation about what documents were at Benghazi, and there were no classified materials, to the best of our information.

	POMPEO: Yes, ma'am. Do you know if there was sensitive information?

	CLINTON: I suppose it depends on what one thinks of as sensitive information. There was information there and some of it was burnt, either wholly or partially. Some of it was looted. And some of it was recovered eventually.

	POMPEO: Madam Secretary, do you know where that material that was looted went? Do you know into whose hands it fell? And do you know the nature and contents of that material? You seem very confident it wasn't classified. I don't share your confidence. But nonetheless, do you know where that material went?

	CLINTON: I think that it -- it is very difficult to know where it ended up. But I want to just reiterate the point that I made. This was not a facility that had the capacity to handle classified material. And there was, to the best of our information, Congressman, no classified material at the Benghazi facility.

	POMPEO: Ma'am, the fact that it wasn't capable of handling classified material doesn't mean that there wasn't any classified material there. Is that correct?

	CLINTON: Well, the procedure is not to have classified material at such a facility. And again, to the best of our knowledge, there was not any there.

	POMPEO: Yes, ma'am. You're not supposed to have classified e- mail on your private server either.

	CLINTON: And I did not, Congressman.


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	WALKER: ...can you help me understand why didn’t it rise to your investigation or someone bringing that to your knowledge as far as saying this is a problem, here she is, again, Secretary Clinton lying under oath specifically about our investigation?

	COMEY: We out of respect for the legislative branch being a separate branch, we do not commence investigations that focus on activities before Congress without Congress asking us...

	...CHAFFETZ: You did not look at testimony that Hillary Clinton gave in the United State Congress, both the House and the Senate.

	COMEY: To see whether it was precarious in some respect?

	CHAFFETZ: Yes.

	COMEY: No we did not.

	CHAFFETZ: Did you review and look at those transcripts as to the intent of your recommendation.

	COMEY: I’m sure my folks did. I did not.


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	GOWDY: False exculpatory statements, they are used for what?

	COMEY: Either for the — a substantive prosecution or for evidence of intent in a criminal prosecution.

	GOWDY: Exactly. Intent and consciousness of guilt, right? Is that right?

	COMEY: Right.


http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1510/18/sotu.01.html
	TAPPER: The inspector general of the intelligence community said some of this stuff contained classified information when it was generated whether or not it was marked classify.

	CLINTON: Well, that is just a very strong difference of opinion. The State Department does not agree with that. And it is almost an impossible standard because we had two separate systems.

	We had the unclassified systems, so anybody who was on the unclassified system with the State Department would only be able to tell if something were classified if it were marked classified. We dealt with classified information on a totally different system. Nobody had access to that from an unclassified device. So, I think a lot of this is being a public display of the very common arguments that go on between different agencies and our government. This happens every time there is a Freedom of Information Act request. If something is going to be made public that was not classified at the time, maybe something has happened years later that there's a case and so now it's sensitive information. That's what's going on here. 


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	pg 20

	FBI and USIC classification reviews identified 81 e-mail chains containing approximately 193 individual e-mail exchanges that were classified from the CONFIDENTIAL to TOP SECRET levels at the time the e-emails were drafted on UNCLASSIFIED systems and sent to or from Clinton's personal server. Of the 81 e-mail chains classified at the time of transmittal, 68 remain classified.

	...The 81 classified e-mail chains contained 8-email chains classified TOP SECRET, 37 e-mail chains classified SECRET ...7 e-mail chains contained information associated with a Special Access Program (SAP) and 3 e-mail chains contained Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI).


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/full-transcript-abcs-david-muir-interviews-hillary-clinton/story?id=33607656
	DAVID MUIR: But North Korea's nuclear program? Wouldn't that be classified?

	HILLARY CLINTON: There's a lot of public information about their nuclear program. I don't know the specifics about the one that they are claiming is classified. I can only repeat what happens to be the case-- that I did not send nor receive information that was marked classified at the time that it was sent or received. 


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2003%20of%2010/view
	pg 123

	[REDACTED] was asked to review an email [REDACTED] with subject line [REDACTED]. Upon reviewing the email, [REDACTED] commented "wow... I don't recall this email chain... I'm surprised to see it and prefer not to comment."

	[REDACTED] was subsequently asked to review several other emails. ...Upon reviewing each document, [REDACTED] again indicated that he did not want to comment.

	...While being escorted to the elevator by SA [REDACTED], [REDACTED] stated he recently read a news article about the investigation into Secretary CLINTON's personal email server that opined that most of the classified documents were over classified. However, [REDACTED] stated that after seeing the above referenced documents, he now understood why people were concerned about this matter.


http://www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1605/06/cnr.01.html
	MITCHELL: Any indication that your private server was hacked by foreign hackers?

	CLINTON: No, not at all. 


https://foia.state.gov/searchapp/DOCUMENTS/HRCEmail_OctWeb/223/DOC_0C05787240/C05787240.pdf
	From: Neera Tanden
	Sent: Wednesday, July 27, 2011 02:55 PM
	To: H
	Subject: Exclusively For You

	Look what I've found http://snipurl.com/1szq63 Here is a very nice offer. Enjoy!


	From: H  <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
	Sent: Wednesday, July 27, 2011 4:37 PM
	Subject Fw: Exclusively For You

	Neera-did you send me this? If not, I think your email address book has been hacked. If so, Why? Anyway, hope you're well.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	pg 31

	Abedin sent an e-mail to [REDACTED] indicating Clinton was worried "someone [was] hacking into her email"


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	pg 29

	On January 9, 2011, Cooper sent Abedin an e-mail stating someone was attempting to "hack" the server, prompting him to shut it down. Copper sent Abedin another e-mail later the same day stating he had to reboot the server again.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	QUESTION: ...This wasn't Gmail or Yahoo or something. This was a server that you owned. Is that appropriate? Is it -- was there any precedent for it?

	CLINTON: Well, the system we used was set up for President Clinton's office. And it had numerous safeguards. It was on property guarded by the Secret Service. And there were no security breaches.


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	BLUM: Director Comey, are you implying in that statement that the private e-mail servers of Secretary Clinton’s were perhaps less secure than a Gmail account that is used for free by a billion people around this planet?

	COMEY: Yes.


https://apnews.com/467ff78858bf4dde8db21677deeff101/only-ap-clinton-server-ran-software-risked-hacking
	AP Exclusive: Clinton email server setup risked intrusions

	The private email server running in Hillary Rodham Clinton’s home basement when she was secretary of state was connected to the Internet in ways that made it more vulnerable to hackers while using software that could have been exploited

	...wasn’t intended for such use without additional protective measures

	...subject of U.S. government and industry warnings at the time over attacks from even low-skilled intruders


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	WATSON COLEMAN: Thank you, Mr. Director.

	Can you tell me based upon your information has there been and is there any evidence that our national security has been breached or at risk as a result of these e-mails and their being on this server? Is there any evidence?

	COMEY: There’s no direct evidence of an intrusion.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	...one appears to have resulted in a successful compromise of an e-mail account on the server. Forensic analysis noted that on January 5, 2013, three IP addresses matching known Tor exit nodes ...FBI investigation indicated the Tor user logged in to [REDACTED] e-mail account and browsed e-mail folders and attachments.


https://oig.state.gov/system/files/esp-16-03.pdf
	...on March 11, 2011, the Assistant Secretary for Diplomatic Security sent a memorandum on cybersecurity threats directly to Secretary Clinton. A portion of the unclassified version of this memorandum states:

		Threat analysis by the DS cyber security team and related incident reports indicate a dramatic increase since January 2011 in attempts by [redacted] cyber actors to compromise the private home e-mail accounts of senior Department officials . ... Although the targets are unclassified, personal e-mail accounts, the likely objective is to compromise user accounts and thereby gain access to policy documents and personal information that could enable technical surveillance and possible blackmail.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	...Open source information indicated, if opened, the targeted user's device may have been infected, and information would have been sent to at least three computers overseas, including one in Russia.

	...Pagliano recalled finding "a virus," but could provide no additional details, other than that it was nothing of great concern.


http://www.cnn.com/2015/03/10/politics/state-department-hack-worst-ever/index.html
	Sources: State Dept. hack the 'worst ever'

	Overlooked in the controversy over Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server, is the fact that suspected Russian hackers have bedeviled State Department's email system for much of the past year


http://www.politico.com/story/2015/05/michael-morrell-foreign-governments-have-hillarys-email-118007
	Michael Morell: Foreign governments have Hillary's email

	Former Deputy CIA Director Michael Morell said that he believes some foreign intelligence agencies possess the contents of Hillary Clinton’s private email server.

	“I think that foreign intelligence services, the good ones, have everything on any unclassified network that the government uses,” Morell said Friday in an interview on the Hugh Hewitt Show.

	“I don’t think that was a very good judgment,” he added of Clinton’s decision to use the private server for official State Department business.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2004%20of%2010/view
	pg 64

	[REDACTED] was interviewed by Special Agent (SA) [REDACTED] at the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)

	...Agents showed [REDACTED] one last email dated [REDACTED] and titled [REDACTED]. After reviewing the email, [REDACTED] exclaimed "[REDACTED] is an idiot." [REDACTED] further explained that he believed the email was "problematic."

	...[REDACTED] expressed his opinion that DoS was not very careful


http://www.wsj.com/articles/clinton-emails-in-probe-dealt-with-planned-drone-strikes-1465509863
	Emails in Clinton Probe Dealt With Planned Drone Strikes

	...Under strict US classification rules, US officials have been barred from discussing strikes publicly and even privately outside of secure communications systems.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	CLINTON believed information should be classified in the case of covert military action, the use of sensitive sources and where sensitive deliberations took place. When asked whether CLINTON believed information should be classified if it is unauthorized release would cause damage to national security, she responded, "yes, that is the understanding." 


http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/clinton-emails-held-indirect-references-undercover-cia-officers-n510741
	Clinton Emails Held Indirect References to Undercover CIA Officers

	State Department and other officials attempted to make veiled references to intelligence officers in the emails — references that were deemed classified when the messages were being reviewed years later for public release.

	...In one case, an official said, an undercover CIA officer was referred to as a State Department official with the word "State," in quotes, as if to suggest the emailer knew the officer was not actually a diplomat. In another case, an email refers to "OGA" for "other government agency," a common reference to the CIA.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2004%20of%2010/view
	pg 66

	...After reading the email, [REDACTED] expressed concerns over the detail contained in the email. [REDACTED] stated that the email was "very specific"...


http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/11/us/clinton-emails-routine-practice.html
	...Those emails have not been released, even with redactions, because they include material classified at the highest levels, known as “top secret/SAP,” according to a letter from the inspector general of the nation’s intelligence agencies

	...That designation refers to “special access programs,” which are among the nation’s most guarded secrets 

	In 18 emails, for example, information has been classified on the grounds that it identifies C.I.A. officials


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/06/us/politics/agencies-battle-over-what-is-top-secret-in-hillary-clintons-emails.html
	One of the messages has been given a designation of “HCS-O” — indicating that the information was derived from human intelligence sources


http://www.marketwatch.com/story/hillary-clinton-campaign-22-top-secret-emails-over-classification-run-amok-2016-01-31
	“This appears to be over-classification run amok,” Clinton’s campaign said in a statement released Friday. 


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2003%20of%2010/view
	pg 174

	[REDACTED] was interviewed by Special Agent (SA) [REDACTED] and SA [REDACTED] at the Central Intelligence Agency

	...After reviewing the email he provided that the email should be classified but that he was not surprised that DOS had sent it on an unclassified channel. [REDACTED] further noted that the DOS unclassified email system had previously been penetrated by a foreign adversary.

	...[REDACTED] was shown a copy of an email... After reviewing the email, [REDACTED] stated that his true name, and that of [REDACTED] should not have been included in an unclassified email.

	...[REDACTED] continued to say that the personnel at DOS were experienced and knew that this information was classified. However, the did it anyways and their actions hurt the CIA and other agencies whose equities were conveyed in the emails.


http://www.newsweek.com/hillary-clinton-email-terrorism-sloppy-communications-463605
	A retired senior State Department military adviser claims that Hillary Clinton’s “sloppy communications with her senior staff” when she was secretary of state may have compromised at least two counterterrorism operations.

	...Bill Johnson, who was the State Department’s political adviser to the special operations section of the U.S. Pacific Command, or PACOM, in 2010 and 2011, says secret plans to eliminate the leader of a Filipino Islamist separatist group and intercept Chinese-made weapons components being smuggled into Iraq were repeatedly foiled.

	...“We had good intel. We knew where he was,” ... “He would be gone three hours before, sometimes as little as a half-hour before” the counterterrorism teams moved in. “We knew he was getting tipped off somehow. We just didn’t know why.”

	...As a dramatic solution, the Special Operations Command stopped giving advance warning to senior State Department officials about raids, Johnson says. Whatever the cause, the leaks stopped. In February 2012, Dr. Abu and two other senior militants were eventually killed in what was described as “a U.S.-backed airstrike.”


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/full-transcript-abcs-david-muir-interviews-hillary-clinton/story?id=33607656
	HILLARY CLINTON: ...But I do think I could have and should have done a better job answering questions earlier.

	I really didn't perhaps appreciate the need to do that. What I had done was allowed, it was above board. But in retrospect, certainly, as I look back at it now, even though it was allowed, I should've used two accounts. One for personal, one for work-related emails.

	That was a mistake. I'm sorry about that. I take responsibility. ...

	 DAVID MUIR: You have said you would apologize for the confusion but not say, "I'm sorry." But I did hear a word in there just a moment ago and I'm curious. Would you acknowledge that you made a mistake here? Because you wrote in your own memoir last year just how important using the word mistake is in politics. You, you wrote, "In our political culture, saying you made a mistake is often taken as weakness when in fact it can be a sign of strength and growth." And so as you sit here, millions watching tonight, did you make a mistake?

	HILLARY CLINTON: I did. I did. As I said, it was allowed and there was no hiding it. It was totally above board. ...But I'm sorry that it has, you know, raised all of these questions. I do take responsibility for having made what is clearly not the best decision. And I want people to know that I am trying to be as transparent as possible...



All this brings up some questions, like:


- Why did Clinton change her story from "there is no classified information" to "I never sent anything classified at the time it was sent or received" to "nothing was marked classified" after media reports on her server? She told Congress she changed her story to clear up "confusion" about "how the classification process works," but all she did is confuse the public more--classified information is classified even if it's unmarked. Americans are supposed to be able to trust their officials to recognize classified and keep it safe, and Clinton's job as an original classification authority was to recognize when information is classified and mark it if necessary. Clinton wrote several emails classified at the Special Access Program (SAP) level, which is classified that way if its release would do grave damage to national security, but she didn't mark them. Clinton confused the public in a way that makes her seem less guilty (regarding confusion, read a few articles here 
https://www.google.com/search?q=information+marked+classified+confusion&tbs=cdr%3A1%2Ccd_min%3A3%2F1%2F2015%2Ccd_max%3A11%2F8%2F2016 and you'll see what I mean).


- How is it that, after lecturing the American public on classification markings, Clinton knows what "(SBU)" means, but when the FBI asks here what but "(C)" means she tells them it's referencing paragraphs marked in alphabetical order? There was no "(A)" or "(B)" in the short email they showed her, and it was even marked Confidential in headers on the top and bottom. Clinton has seen emails that mix both "(SBU)" and "(C)" markings (apparently, the alphabet goes "C, SBU, SBU, SBU...") and she's written thousands of cables that use both.


- Why did Comey go along with Clinton's "(C) is just a letter in the alphabet" story? He told (or implied) to Congress he's "not sure" if Clinton knew "(C)" means "Confidential," but when the question of Clinton's sophistication came up later in his testimony, Comey said "Well, I was talking about technical sophistication," as if to change his story. Comey testified that Clinton signed-off on being briefed on the handling of classified information and "executed that document." So, is she sophisticated in handling classified information or not? Comey's testimony is unnecessarily vague.


- Clinton told the FBI she had "no reason to believe" there was classified information in her account, but earlier she asked Jake Sullivan to forward an email "if not classified or otherwise inappropriate," indicating that she had reason to believe there was classified information on her account. Was she lying to the FBI?


- Clinton asked Jake Sullivan to send her classified talking points over unsecure fax, apparently for a meeting that was starting in 8 minutes (Clinton says "I didn't get the TPs yet." Sullivan says "?!!! Checking"). The problem was Clinton told him to remove the classification headers and send nonsecure, but when confronted about it in her FBI interview gave them a red herring about "non-paper" documents at the State department. Why did Comey repeat her misleading explanation to Congress?


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	CHAFFETZ: ...How did the Department of Justice, or how did the FBI view the incident in which Hillary Clinton instructed Jake Sullivan to take the markings off of a document that was to be sent to her?

	COMEY: Yes, we looked at that pretty closely. There was some problem with their secure fax machine and there was an e-mail in which she says in substance, take the headers off of it and send it as a non- paper and as we’ve dug into that more deeply, we’ve come to learn that at least this one view of it that is reasonable, that a non-paper in State Department parlance (ph) means a document that contains things we could pass to another government. So essentially take out anything that’s classified and send it to me. 


https://fam.state.gov/fam/05fah01/05fah010610.html
	Use this section to provide instructions on any written material to be left with the host government official(s).  Such material could take the form of an aide-memoire, a letter, or a “non-paper” that provides a written version of the verbal presentation (i.e., the talking points as delivered).  Unless otherwise instructed, post should normally provide an aide-memoire or non-paper at the conclusion of a demarche.  Classified aide-memoire or non-paper must be appropriately marked


- Why did Comey remember that part of Clinton's FBI interview in detail, but was forgetful when asked to compare Clinton's public statements to her statements to the FBI? ("did she change her statements in that sworn testimony with you last Saturday? ...I haven’t gone through that to parse that…", "It’s a very long, 302. I’d have to check and then get back to you.", "COMEY: I’m not equipped sitting here without the 302 in front of me to answer in that broad…  MULVANEY: But it’s your — it’s your testimony…") He made it sound like he's her defense lawyer.


- Comey testified there was "no direct evidence of an intrusion," but the FBI's report says there "appears" to have been "a successful compromise of an e-mail account on the server." Was Comey contradicting his own FBI?


- Comey inserted an "intent" requirement (a "general mens rea requirement" as he puts it) into the law that only requires "gross negligence" to prosecute someone for mishandling classified information. Comey testified that false exculpatory statements show a guilty conscience and intent, but Clinton made several such statements to Congress and the public. She gave one to Jake Tapper in an interview ("maybe something has happened years later that there's a case and so now it's sensitive information. That's what's going on here.") and one to Pompeo in her testimony ("POMPEO: Yes, ma'am. You're not supposed to have classified e- mail on your private server either. CLINTON: And I did not, Congressman."). Her statement to Pomeo came shortly after she was informed there was classified information on her server and immediately after agreeing (if at least implicitly) that classified information should not be stored in unauthorized locations. If Clinton is sophisticated in handling classified info, as Comey seems to have testified, then she knows her statements were false. Knowledge of classified information on her server can also be inferred by some of her statements in her emails ("If not classified or otherwise inappropriate...") and her statements to the FBI ("When asked whether CLINTON believed information should be classified if it is unauthorized release would cause damage to national security, she responded, 'yes, that is the understanding.'").


Claim #2: Clinton's private server was allowed, and she set it up for "convenience:"


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/

	...when I got to work as secretary of state, I opted for convenience to use my personal email account, which was allowed by the State Department, because I thought it would be easier to carry just one device for my work and for my personal emails instead of two.

	Looking back, it would've been better if I'd simply used a second email account and carried a second phone, but at the time, this didn't seem like an issue.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	QUESTION: And also, the president of the United States said that he was unaware that you had this unusual email arrangement. The White House counsel's office says that you never approved this arrangement through them.

	Why did you not do that? Why did you -- why have you apparently caught the White House by surprise?

	And then just one last political question, if I -- I might. Does all of this make -- affect your decision in any way on whether or not to run for president?

	CLINTON: Well, let me try to unpack your multiple questions.

	First, the laws and regulations in effect when I was secretary of state allowed me to use my email for work. That is undisputed.


http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2016/may/31/hillary-clinton/fact-checking-hillary-clintons-claim-her-email-pra/
	Since the news of Clinton’s email came to light in 2015, she has argued that she "complied with every rule" and that the practice was "allowed." We haven’t yet put the issue on the Truth-O-Meter because there were too many unknowns.

	But the inspector general’s report has clarified some of those unknowns and demonstrated that Clinton’s exclusive use of personal email was, in fact, not allowed.


https://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/03/us/politics/hillary-clintons-use-of-private-email-at-state-department-raises-flags.html
	“It is very difficult to conceive of a scenario — short of nuclear winter — where an agency would be justified in allowing its cabinet-level head officer to solely use a private email communications channel for the conduct of government business,” said Jason R. Baron, ... former director of litigation at the National Archives and Records Administration.


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	FARENTHOLD: All right. I want to go back to the question of intent real quick, for just a second.

	I’m a recovering attorney. It’s been decades since I actually practiced law. But you kept referring to she had to know it was illegal to have the requisite criminal intent. I was always taught in law school, and I don’t know where this changed, that ignorance of the law was no excuse. If I’m driving a long at 45 miles and hour and didn’t see the 35 mile and hour speed limit, I was still intentionally speeding, even though I didn’t know it.

	Now, I might not have had the requisite criminal intent if maybe my accelerator were jammed or something like that, but even though I didn’t know the law was 35, I was driving 45, I’m going to get a ticket. And I’m probably going to be prosecuted for that.

	So, how can you say ignorance of the law is an excuse in Ms. Clinton’s case?

	COMEY: Well, the comparison to petty offenses, I don’t think is — you spoke about the question of — ignorance of the law is no excuse, but here’s the distinction. You have to have general criminal intent. You don’t need to know what particular statute you’re violating, but you must be aware of the generally wrongful nature of your conduct…


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2004%20of%2010/view
	pg 90

	CLINTON sent out an all-staff cable that personal email should not be used day-to-day for business purposes and that personal email is not secure, so do not use them for business purposes. To best of [REDACTED]'s recollection, CLINTON sent that cable out in 2009. 


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/full-transcript-abcs-david-muir-interviews-hillary-clinton/story?id=33607656
	 DAVID MUIR: You mentioned everybody in the government knew that you were using this private server. It-- did fellow members of the cabinet know? Did the president know?

	HILLARY CLINTON: Everyone I emailed with, and I'm not going to go into names, but let me say I emailed with many people in the White House and the rest of the government, of course, across the State Department, knew that I was emailing from a personal account. 


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2003%20of%2010/view
	pg 166

	...[REDACTED] did not recall seeing CLINTON's actual email address. Rather, when [REDACTED] received or responded to emails from CLINTON, she recalled seeing a single initial. ...[REDACTED] noted that although she is no longer at DoS, she still maintains email contact with CLINTON and now receives emails from CLINTON where the name of the sender is "H." [REDACTED] had no knowledge CLINTON was using her own private server until it was reported in the media.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/full-transcript-abcs-david-muir-interviews-hillary-clinton/story?id=33607656
	HILLARY CLINTON: ...As I said, it was allowed and there was no hiding it. It was totally above board.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2003%20of%2010/view
	pg 166
	
	[REDACTED] was not initially provided CLINTON's email address, so when she wanted to send or forward a message to CLINTON, she would route it through HUMA ABEDIN. At some point in the first six to eight months of employment at DoS, [REDACTED] recalled CLINTON responding to one of the messages she forwarded directly. At this point, [REDACTED] asked ABEDIN if it was okay to go direct with CLINTON, and was granted the "privilege." [REDACTED] explained the privilege of emailing CLINTON direct was not a privilege she used lightly. While [REDACTED] did not have a history of Government Service, she thought it was normal for someone in CLINTON's position to have a "gatekeeper system" in place.


https://oig.state.gov/system/files/esp-16-03.pdf
	Two staff in S/ES-IRM reported to OIG that, in late 2010, they each discussed their concerns about Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal email account ...one staff member raised concerns that information sent and received on Secretary Clinton’s account could contain Federal records that needed to be preserved in order to satisfy Federal recordkeeping requirements. According to the staff member, the Director stated that the Secretary’s personal system had been reviewed and approved by Department legal staff and that the matter was not to be discussed any further. ...the Director stated that the mission of S/ES-IRM is to support the Secretary and instructed the staff never to speak of the Secretary’s personal email system again. 


http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2016/may/31/hillary-clinton/fact-checking-hillary-clintons-claim-her-email-pra/
	Fallon pointed PolitiFact to a May 26 CNN interview where Clinton said that at the time she made the decision to use a private server, she "thought it was allowed."


http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1510/18/sotu.01.html
	TAPPER: Right. And you said it was allowed, too.

	CLINTON: Yes, it was.

	TAPPER: Who allowed it?

	CLINTON: It was allowed under the rules of the State Department. And again --

	TAPPER: So nobody signed off on it?

	CLINTON: No, no. It was allowed.


https://oig.state.gov/system/files/esp-16-03.pdf
	Throughout Secretary Clinton’s tenure, the FAM stated that normal day-to-day operations should be conducted on an authorized AIS, yet OIG found no evidence that the Secretary requested or obtained guidance or approval to conduct official business via a personal email account on her private server. ...Secretary Clinton had an obligation to discuss using her personal email account to conduct official business with their offices, who in turn would have attempted to provide her with approved and secured means that met her business needs. However, according to these officials, DS and IRM did not—and would not—approve her exclusive reliance on a personal email account to conduct Department business, because of the restrictions in the FAM and the security risks in doing so. 

	...DS and IRM reported to OIG that Secretary Clinton never demonstrated to them that her private server or mobile device met minimum information security requirements specified by FISMA and the FAM.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/full-transcript-abcs-david-muir-interviews-hillary-clinton/story?id=33607656
	HILLARY CLINTON: ...Everybody in the government I communicated with -- and that was a lot of people--


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2003%20of%2010/view
	pg 117

	[REDACTED] sent a weekly report directly to the Secretary of State when it was widely known "you don't go direct" with the Secretary.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/full-transcript-abcs-david-muir-interviews-hillary-clinton/story?id=33607656
	HILLARY CLINTON: --knew I was using a personal e-mail.


https://oig.state.gov/system/files/esp-16-03.pdf
	...OIG interviewed other senior Department officials with relevant knowledge who served under Secretary Clinton, including the Under Secretary for Management ... ; current and former Executive Secretaries ; and attorneys within the Office of the Legal Adviser. These officials all stated that they were not asked to approve or otherwise review the use of Secretary Clinton’s server and that they had no knowledge of approval or review by other Department staff. These officials also stated that they were unaware of the scope or extent of Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal email account, though many of them sent emails to the Secretary on this account. Secretary Clinton’s Chief of Staff also testified before the House Select Committee on Benghazi that she was unaware of anyone being consulted about the Secretary’s exclusive use of a personal email address.


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	DUNCAN: Do you — we talk about gross negligence here and you said that Secretary Clinton was extremely careless with this classified material and how dangerous it could be, how threatening to — even to people’s lives that it could be to disclose classified material.

	Do you agree that there is a very thin line between gross negligence and extreme carelessness? And would you explain to me what you consider to be that difference?

	COMEY: Sure, judge — Congressman. As a former judge, you know there isn’t actually a great definition in the law of gross negligence. Some courts interpret it as close to willful, which means you know you’re doing something wrong.


https://oig.state.gov/system/files/esp-16-03.pdf
	In March 2009, after unsuccessful efforts to supply Secretary Clinton with a secure government smartphone, DS was informed that Secretary Clinton’s staff had been asking to use BlackBerry devices inside classified areas. The Assistant Secretary of DS then sent a classified memorandum to Secretary Clinton’s Chief of Staff that described the vulnerabilities associated with the use of BlackBerry devices and also noted the prohibition on the use of Blackberry devices in sensitive areas. 


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2003%20of%2010/view
	pg 78

	Agents asked BOSWELL to review a redacted memo titled "Use of Blackberries in Mahogany Row." ...After reviewing the memo, BOSWELL stated the memo was drafted early in the Administration and shortly after CLINTON began her tenure at DoS.


https://oig.state.gov/system/files/esp-16-03.pdf
	OIG discovered in Secretary Clinton’s retired paper files a copy of the classified presentation used during the briefing.


http://freebeacon.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/boswell-bberry-memo.pdf
	INFORMATION MEMO FOR CHERYL D. MILLS--S
	FROM:	DS--Eric J. Boswell
	SUBJECT: Use of Blackberries in Mahogany Row

	We have worked closely [REDACTED] to review all options that would allow Secretary Clinton, you, and a small number of staff to use Blackberries [REDACTED]

	...Our review reaffirms our belief that the vulnerabilities and risks associated with the use of Blackberries in the Mahogany Row [REDACTED] considerably outweigh the convenience their use can add to staff that have access to the unclassified OpenNet system on their desktops.

	...We also worry about the example that using Blackberries in Mahogany row might set as we strive to promote crucial security practices and enforce important security standards among State Department staff.

	...I cannot stress too strongly, however, that any unclassified Blackberry is highly vulnerable in any setting to remotely and covertly monitoring conversations, retrieving e-mails, and exploiting calendars. I am attaching reports from DS's Office of Computer Security's Cyber Threat & Analysis Division that give further background on those risks.

	...Attachments: ..."Your Cell and Your Berry: Tools for the Enemy"


https://oig.state.gov/system/files/esp-16-03.pdf
	According to a DS official, shortly after the memorandum was delivered, Secretary Clinton approached the Assistant Secretary and told him she “gets it.”


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2004%20of%2010/view
	pg 43

	...no cell phones are allowed inside the SCIF and DS agents, officers, and staff are required to leave their cell phones outside the door in secure lockers. CLINTON refused to abide by this security requirement and brought her cell phone, believed to be a Blackberry, inside the SCIF where a DS agent assigned to Post 1 was required to guard it. DS agents were indignant that they were required to follow security policy but CLINTON made herself exempt from the same regulations.


https://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/15/us/politics/hillary-clintonwas-asked-about-email-2-years-ago.html
	WASHINGTON — Hillary Rodham Clinton was directly asked by congressional investigators in a December 2012 letter whether she had used a private email account while serving as secretary of state, according to letters obtained by The New York Times.

	But Mrs. Clinton did not reply to the letter. And when the State Department answered in March 2013, nearly two months after she left office, it ignored the question and provided no response.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	QUESTION: Why did you wait two months? Why -- why did you wait two months to turn those emails over? The rules say you have to turn them over...

	(CROSSTALK) CLINTON: I don't think -- I'd be happy to have somebody talk to you about the rules. I fully complied with every rule that I was governed by.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2004%20of%2010/view
	[REDACTED] was previously an agent of the U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Diplomatic Security (DS). ...[REDACTED] served briefly on former Secretary CLINTON's protective detail in 2009. From her own experience, and information obtained through [REDACTED] and other agents, [REDACTED] described a "stark difference" between RICE and CLINTON with regard to obedience to security and diplomatic protocols while CLINTON frequently and "blatantly" disregarded them. For example ...It is seen as diplomatic protocl for the Secretary of State to arrive at foreign diplomatic functions with the local ambassador; however, CLINTON refused to do so, instead choosing to be accompanied in the limousine by her Chief of Staff, HUMA ABEDIN. This frequently resulted in complaints by ambassadors who were insulted and embarrassed by this breach of protocol. [REDACTED] explained that CLINTON'S protocol breaches were well known throughout Diplomatic Security and were "abundant."

	...On a trip to Jakarta, Indonesia, in early 2009, CLINTON requested to visit an area of Jakarta that presented security and safety challenges. This visit was reportedly for a photo opportunity regarding CLINTON's "clean cooking stoves" initiative. The DS advance team recommended against traveling to this area because the route could not be secured and was lined with dangerous circumstances and individuals. As such, the DS advance team recommended in writing that this excursion be stricken from the schedule but were told by DS management that it was going to happen because "she wanted it." DS agents felt this excursion into potentially hostile areas placed CLINTON, her staff, the media, and her security detail in unnecessary danger in order to conduct a photo opportunity for "her election campaign." DS agents had the perception that CLINTON was using her position as Secretary of State to campaign for President of the United States. 

	...On one occasion while traveling to Palestine, CLINTON ordered the limousine driver, believed to be [REDACTED], to open the window while in "occupied territory", referring to a dangerous area of the West Bank. [REDACTED] initially declined to respond to CLINTON's request; however, repeated demands by CLINTON forced him to open his window despite the danger to himself and the occupants.

	...Early in CLINTON's tenure as Secretary of State, she and her staff were observed removing lamps and furniture from the State Department which were transported to her residence in Washington, D.C. [REDACTED] does not know whether these items were ever returned to the government upon CLINTON's departure from the State Department.

	...[REDACTED] explained that CLINTON's treatment of DS agents on her protective detail was so contemptuous that many of them sought reassignment or employment elsewhere. Prior to CLINTON's tenure, being an agent on the Secretary of State's protective detail was seen as an honor and privilege reserved for senior agents. However, by the end of CLINTON's tenure, it was staffed largely with new agents because it was difficult to find senior agents willing to work for her.


http://freebeacon.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/boswell-bberry-memo.pdf
	Use of Blackberries in Mahogany Row

	...As an alternative, we suggested that DS work with S/ES-IRM to make access to the Secretary's OpenNet account on her desktop workstation as easy and convenient as possible. For example, we are happy to work with IRM to lengthen or even eliminate the time-out function to allow the Secretary's Special Assistant to log-in to review her emails and schedules.	

	...If, after considering the vulnerabilities that I describe above and the alternatives that I propose


https://oig.state.gov/system/files/esp-16-03.pdf
	...in response to Secretary Clinton’s desire to take her BlackBerry device into secure areas, her Chief of Staff discussed with senior officials in S/ES and with the Under Secretary for Management alternative solutions, such as setting up a separate stand-alone computer connected to the Internet for Secretary Clinton “to enable her to check her emails from her desk.” The Under Secretary’s response was “the stand-alone separate network PC is [a] great idea” and that it is “the best solution.” According to the Department, no such computer was ever set up. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/10/22/transcript-clinton-testifies-before-house-committee-on-benghazi/
	CLINTON: ...If you were to be in my office in the State Department, I didn't have a computer...


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	pg 12

	Investigators determined Clinton did not have a computer in her State office, which was located in a Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF) on the seventh floor of State headquarters, in an area often referred to as "Mahogany Row." State Diplomatic Security Service (DS) instructed Clinton that because her office was in a SCIF, the use of mobile devices in her office was prohibited.


https://careers.state.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/What-Every-New-Employee-Needs-to-Know.pdf
	THE ABC’S

	What Every New Employee Needs to Know

	...Government and personally owned cellular telephones are permitted for use inside DOS facilities only where classified information is not discussed or processed. 


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	According to Abedin, Clinton primarily used her personal BlackBerry or personal iPad for checking e-mails, and she left the SCIF to do so, often visiting State's eight floor balcony. 


https://foia.state.gov/searchapp/DOCUMENTS/HRCEmail_NovWeb/273/DOC_0C05794192/C05794192.pdf
	From: H
	Sent: Tuesday, September 11, 2012 08:51 PM
	To: Diane Reynolds
	Subject: I'm in my office

	Because of attacks on our embassy in Cairo and our office in Benghazi so email when you can talk.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	pg 14

	FBI investigation and the State OIG report determined that State issued regular notices to staff during Clinton's tenure highlighting cybersecurity threats and advising that mobile devices must be configured to State security guidelines. Clinton and her immediate staff were notified of foreign travel risks and were warned that digital threats began immediately upon landing in a foreign country...


https://oig.state.gov/system/files/esp-16-03.pdf
	Beginning in 2009, the Cyber Threat Analysis Division (CTAD) in DS issued regular notices...According to an article posted by CTAD, digital threats begin immediately after landing in a foreign country. A primary threat is traced to the traveler’s mobile device (BlackBerry or other smart device) which is necessarily connected to the local cellular tower. This connection gives foreign entities the opportunity to intercept voice and email transmissions immediately after the traveler arrives overseas.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	...Investigations determined that of the e-mails provided by ... Clinton's production to the FBI, approximately [REDACTED] emails were sent or received by Clinton on her personal e-mail accounts while she was travelling outside the continental United States (OCONUS) on official State business.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	QUESTION: Were you ever -- were you ever specifically briefed on the security implications of using -- using your own email server and using your personal address to email with the president?

	CLINTON: I did not email any classified material to anyone on my email. There is no classified material.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	...FBI investigation determined that hundreds of e-mails classified CONFIDENTIAL during the State FOIA process were sent or received by Clinton while she was OCONUS.

	...On [REDACTED] occasions while OCONUS, Clinton had direct e-mail contact with an e-mail address for President Barack Obama.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	After reviewing an email dated July 1, 2012 with subject line "Fw: Congratulations!," CLINTON stated she received no particular guidance as to how she should use the President's email address [REDACTED]@who.eop.gov. Since the foregoing email was sent from Russia, CLINTON stated she must have sent it from the plane.


http://www.breitbart.com/tech/2016/10/20/wikileaks-releases-first-batch-president-obamas-emails/
	WikiLeaks Releases First Batch Of Barack Obama’s Emails


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	QUESTION: ...Madam Secretary, why did you opt out not using two devices at the time? Obviously, if this didn't come out, you wouldn't -- probably wouldn't become an issue.

	QUESTION: And my -- my second follow-up question is, if you were a man today, would all this fuss being made be made?

	Thank you.

	CLINTON: Well, I will -- I will leave that to others to answer.

	But as I -- as I said, I saw it as a matter of convenience, and it was allowed. Others had done it. According to the State Department, which recently said Secretary Kerry was the first secretary of state to rely primarily on a state.gov e-mail account.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2003%20of%2010/view
	pg 60

	Secretary Clinton, however, was the first Secretary to use a privately maintained email server


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	CLINTON: ...And when I got there, I wanted to just use one device for both personal and work e-mails, instead of two. It was allowed. And as I said, it was for convenience.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/fact-checker/wp/2016/07/05/revisiting-clintons-claim-she-used-personal-email-out-of-convenience-and-it-was-allowed-by-state-department/
	‘Convenience’

	A batch of emails released last month chronicles technical issues that Clinton and her top aides were facing with her private clintonemail.com account in late 2010. This led to communications issues between Clinton and her staff, and Clinton’s emails were being blocked by the State Department’s server. In a November 2010 email, Clinton wrote to her longtime aide, Huma Abedin: “This is not a good system.”

	Abedin responded: “We should talk about putting you on state email or releasing your email address to the department so you are not going to spam. It’s not the phone message system, it’s the device delay.”

	“Let’s get separate address or device, but I don’t want any risk of the personal being accessible,” Clinton wrote.

	This email became a recurring line of questioning in Abedin’s deposition, the transcript of which was released last week by Judicial Watch. When asked about that last response line by Clinton, Abedin explained:

	“I read that line exactly the way she wrote it, which is, let’s get a separate address. There was no resistance to getting a separate email address, as I’m reading it in this document. And not wanting her personal emails to be accessible to the public. ...”

	Abedin’s answer shows that Clinton was open to having a second device or email address — which calls into question whether the “convenience” concern was relevant or applicable after she became secretary of state. Yet Clinton did not mention these issues when she explained she chose the system out of convenience.



Comey testified that for Clinton to be guilty, she'd need to be "generally aware of the wrongful nature" of her conduct and know she was "doing something wrong:"


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	FARENTHOLD: ...you kept referring to she had to know it was illegal to have the requisite criminal intent. I was always taught in law school, and I don’t know where this changed, that ignorance of the law was no excuse. If I’m driving a long at 45 miles and hour and didn’t see the 35 mile and hour speed limit, I was still intentionally speeding, even though I didn’t know it.

	Now, I might not have had the requisite criminal intent if maybe my accelerator were jammed or something like that, but even though I didn’t know the law was 35, I was driving 45, I’m going to get a ticket. And I’m probably going to be prosecuted for that.

	So, how can you say ignorance of the law is an excuse in Ms. Clinton’s case?

	COMEY: Well, the comparison to petty offenses, I don’t think is — you spoke about the question of — ignorance of the law is no excuse, but here’s the distinction. You have to have general criminal intent. You don’t need to know what particular statute you’re violating, but you must be aware of the generally wrongful nature of your conduct…


https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/18/793
	18 U.S. Code § 793 - Gathering, transmitting or losing defense information

	...(f) Whoever, being entrusted with or having lawful possession or control of any document, writing, code book, ... or information, relating to the national defense, (1) through gross negligence permits the same to be removed from its proper place of custody...


https://www.fbi.gov/news/pressrel/press-releases/statement-by-fbi-director-james-b-comey-on-the-investigation-of-secretary-hillary-clinton2019s-use-of-a-personal-e-mail-system
	Statement by FBI Director James B. Comey on the Investigation of Secretary Hillary Clinton’s Use of a Personal E-Mail System

	...Although we did not find clear evidence that Secretary Clinton or her colleagues intended to violate laws governing the handling of classified information, there is evidence that they were extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive, highly classified information.


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	DUNCAN: ...Do you agree that there is a very thin line between gross negligence and extreme carelessness? And would you explain to me what you consider to be that difference?

	COMEY: Sure, judge — Congressman. As a former judge, you know there isn’t actually a great definition in the law of gross negligence. Some courts interpret it as close to willful, which means you know you’re doing something wrong.

	Others drop it lower. My term (ph) extremely careless is trying to be kind of an ordinary person. That’s a common-sense way of describing it; it sure looks real careless to me.

	The question of whether that amounts to gross negligence frankly is really not at the center of this because when I look at the history of the prosecutions and see, it’s been one case brought on a gross negligence theory.

	I know from 30 years there’s no way anybody from the Department Of Justice is bringing a case against John Doe or Hillary Clinton for the second time in 100 years based on those facts.

	DUNCAN: You ended your statement to Congressman Cooper a while ago saying no — saying once again that no reasonable prosecutor could have brought this case, yet you also mentioned earlier today that you had seen several of your friends and other prosecutors who have said publicly, many across this country, they would have been glad to prosecute this case.

	COMEY: I smile because they’re friends and I haven’t talked to them I want to say, guys, so where were ya over the last 40 years?

	Where were these cases? They just have not been brought for reasons that I said earlier. It’s a good thing the Department Of Justice worries about prosecuting people for being careless. I don’t like it.

	As a citizen, I want people to show they knew they were breaking the law and then we’ll put you in jail.



For whatever reason, Comey keeps switching throughout his testimony between saying you have to "know you were doing something wrong" or "know you were breaking the law" to be prosecuted for gross negligence. Since the idea that you have to "know you were breaking the law" to be guilty of breaking the law is absurd (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ignorantia_juris_non_excusat), we'll assume Comey meant you have to "know you were doing something wrong" to break the law, e.g. "consciousness of guilt" (which is also absurd https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Negligent_homicide, but anyway...). Even still, Comey's defense of Clinton doesn't hold up.

From her public statements, it looks like Clinton really wants people to know her private server was "allowed," "totally above board," and "for convenience:"

	...when I got to work as secretary of state, I opted for convenience to use my personal email account, which was allowed by the State Department

	...First, the laws and regulations in effect when I was secretary of state allowed me to use my email for work. That is undisputed.

	...And when I got there, I wanted to just use one device for both personal and work e-mails, instead of two. It was allowed. And as I said, it was for convenience.

	...As I said, it was allowed and there was no hiding it. It was totally above board.


	...TAPPER: Right. And you said it was allowed, too.

	CLINTON: Yes, it was.

	TAPPER: Who allowed it?

	CLINTON: It was allowed under the rules of the State Department. And again --

	TAPPER: So nobody signed off on it?

	CLINTON: No, no. It was allowed.


	...But as I -- as I said, I saw it as a matter of convenience, and it was allowed. 


But the FBI found that Clinton sent an "all-staff cable" telling her State Department employees that "personal email should not be used day-to-day for business purposes and that personal email is not secure, so do not use them for business purposes." Clinton had an "obligation" to clear her personal server with the State department and dodged the question when asked if anybody "signed off" on her personal server. The State Department OIG found "no evidence" Clinton sought approval for her private server, and "would not" have approved it due to the "security risks." The FBI and State OIG found multiple State department employees, including high-level officials, were unaware Clinton used a private email server for State business. Clinton told David Muir "everybody in the government I communicated with ... knew I was using a personal e-mail," but the FBI found that multiple people in direct email contact with Clinton who didn't know she used a personal server. Clinton's server was configured in a way to hide her address. Clinton's assistant Huma Abedin told Clinton "We should talk about ... releasing your email address to the department," suggesting the State Department didn't know Clinton's email address.

Clinton's conduct at the State Department was also reckless. Clinton really wanted to use her Blackberry from her office, located in a Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF). Regarding use of unsecure Blackberry's in SCIFs, Clinton was given a memo saying "I cannot stress too strongly, however, that any unclassified Blackberry is highly vulnerable in any setting to remotely and covertly monitoring conversations, retrieving e-mails, and exploiting calendars," and a copy of a memo saying as much was found in her papers. Clinton said she "gets it."

But Clinton really wanted to use her Blackberry in her office. Security offered to "make access to the Secretary's OpenNet account on her desktop workstation as easy and convenient as possible," but Clinton never set up a computer in her office. Clinton sent thousands of emails from her blackberry while working from her office, including one titled "I'm in my office."

The FBI found that although Clinton was warned multiple times not to use her Blackberry in foreign counties, ("A primary threat is traced to the traveler’s mobile device [BlackBerry or other smart device] which is necessarily connected to the local cellular tower."), she sent hundreds of classified emails from foreign countries, including emails to the President of the United States. When asked if she was briefed on the "security implications" of emailing the President from another country, Clinton dodged the question:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	QUESTION: Were you ever -- were you ever specifically briefed on the security implications of using -- using your own email server and using your personal address to email with the president?

	CLINTON: I did not email any classified material to anyone on my email. There is no classified material.


When the FBI confronted Clinton in a similar way about emailing Obama from Russia, Clinton told the FBI she "must have sent it from the plane," indicating she knew she she wasn't supposed to be emailing Obama from Russia. Even if Clinton's emails didn't help Obama's emails get on Wikileaks (Russian intelligence could insert malware into her emails in transit, for example), her actions complicate any investigation into the leak of Obama's emails.

Clinton told the public her email setup was allowed while telling the State Department it wasn't allowed. She said she "fully complied with every rule that [she] was governed by" after knowingly breaking the rules in a way that risked national security. It really, really, looks like Clinton was trying to hide something, which suggests she knew she was doing something wrong. Comey didn't explain why this wasn't good enough for his "intent" requirement.

Clinton's explanation that her email setup was for "convenience" doesn't hold up either--when her server was plagued with technical issues and blocked by the State Department, she told Abedin “This is not a good system.” When Abedin offered to get her a State Department email, Clinton said “Let’s get separate address or device, but I don’t want any risk of the personal being accessible.” (Clinton never used an official .gov email during her tenure at the State Department). This also speaks to Clinton's intent: it looks like she was trying to hide her personal emails.


Claim #3: Clinton provided all work-related emails:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	...the vast majority of my work emails went to government employees at their government addresses, which meant they were captured and preserved immediately on the system at the State Department.

	...after I left office, the State Department asked former secretaries of state for our assistance in providing copies of work- related emails from our personal accounts. I responded right away and provided all my emails that could possibly be work-related, which totalled roughly 55,000 printed pages, even though I knew that the State Department already had the vast majority of them. We went through a thorough process to identify all of my work- related emails and deliver them to the State Department. At the end, I chose not to keep my private personal emails -- emails about planning Chelsea's wedding or my mother's funeral arrangements, condolence notes to friends as well as yoga routines, family vacations, the other things you typically find in inboxes.

	No one wants their personal emails made public, and I think most people understand that and respect that privacy.

	Fourth, I took the unprecedented step of asking that the State Department make all my work-related emails public for everyone to see.

	I am very proud of the work that I and my colleagues and our public servants at the department did during my four years as secretary of state, and I look forward to people being able to see that for themselves.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	CLINTON: Yes?

	QUESTION: Did you or any of your aides delete any government- related e-mails from your personal account? And what lengths are you willing to go to to prove that you didn't?

	Some people, including supporters of yours, have suggested having an independent arbiter look at your server, for instance.

	CLINTON: We did not. In fact, my direction to conduct the thorough investigation was to err on the side of providing anything that could be possibly viewed as work related.

	That doesn't mean they will be by the State Department once the State Department goes through them, but out of an abundance of caution and care, you know, we wanted to send that message unequivocally.

	That is the responsibility of the individual and I have fulfilled that responsibility, and I have no doubt that we have done exactly what we should have done. When the search was conducted, we were asking that any email be identified and preserved that could potentially be federal records, and that's exactly what we did.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	pg 19

	To date, the FBI has recovered from additional data sources and reviewed approximately 17,448 unique work-related and personal e-mails from Clinton's tenure containing Clinton's hdr22@clintonemail.com aaa e-mail address that were not provided by Williams & Connolly as part of Clinton's production to the FBI
	
	...Twelve of the e-mail chains, classified by State as SECRET or CONFIDENTIAL, were not among the approximately 30,000 e-mails provided by State and the FBI by Williams & Connolly.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/10/22/transcript-clinton-testifies-before-house-committee-on-benghazi/
	JORDAN: We -- we know the National Archive has -- Secretary Clinton, we know the National Archive has said 1,250 were clearly personal. No way we should have -- no way you should have sent them to the State Department.

	And then we also know that 15, you missed, because we got those from Mr. Blumenthal when he came in -- was -- was -- for his deposition.

	CLINTON: Thank you.

	JORDAN: So if you -- you missed 15 you should have given us, and you gave us 1,250 that -- not we say, but the national archivist says -- you never should have turned over. You erred on both sides. So again, that's why we want to know the terms. Because if you've made a mistake both ways, you may to made -- might have made more mistakes. We don't know.

	CLINTON: Well, first of all, you had nine hours with one of my attorneys. And since I think the Democrats just finally released the transcript, I haven't had a chance...

	JORDAN: And I -- and I specifically asked Ms. Mills. I did.

	CLINTON: ...well...

	JORDAN: I did. I asked her about this and she gave me the -- basically the same kind of answer you're giving me.

	CLINTON: Well, she'll be happy to supplement the record if (inaudible).

	JORDAN: But she's not on the witness stand today. You are, and I'm asking you.

	CLINTON: Well, but I -- I asked my attorneys to do it. I thought that was the appropriate way to proceed.

	...GOWDY: You think our first request, there were only eight emails responsive to our first request?

	CLINTON: I can't speak to it. I believe your first request was for Benghazi. And I believe that the State Department did a diligent search. Then I believe you expanded it to Libya and weapons and maybe a few other terms. And I believe they conducted a diligent...

	GOWDY: Well, our jurisdiction hasn't grown, Madam Secretary. Our jurisdiction is the same thing it was.

	Let me ask you this. You say that you turned over everything. I don't get a chance to watch you a lot on television, but when I see you are interviewed, you make a point of saying, I turned over everything.

	CLINTON: All my work related emails, yes.

	GOWDY: How do you know that?

	CLINTON: I know that because there was an exhaustive search done under the supervision of my attorneys, and that is exactly the outcome. We turned over every work related email, in fact, as somebody referred to earlier, we turned over too many.

	The State Department and the National Archives said there are 1,246 out of the 30,000-plus that they have already determined did not need to be turned over.

	GOWDY: And you have a really...

	SANCHEZ: Regular order, Mr. Chairman.

	GOWDY: ... good group of attorneys, which makes me wonder...

	SANCHEZ: Chairman, regular order.

	GOWDY: ... how they missed 15 of them.

	CLINTON: Well if you are talking about Mr. Blumenthal, which I assume you are, he had some that I didn't have, and I had some that he didn't have. And he -- I was under no obligation to make any of his emails available unless I decided they were work related.

	And the ones that I decided that were work related I forwarded to the state.gov accounts of the people with whom I worked.


http://images.politico.com/global/2015/08/10/clintonjwatchdec080815.pdf
	I, Hillary Rodham Clinton, declare under penalty of perjury that the following is true and correct:

	1) While I do not know what information may be "responsive" for purposes of this law suit, I have directed that all my e-mails on clintonemail.com in my custody that were or potentially were federal records be provided to the Department of State, and on information and belief, this has been done.

	2) As a result of my directive, approximately 55,000 pages of these e-mails were produced to the Department on December 5, 2014

	3) Cheryl Mills did not have an account on clintonemail.com. Huma Abedin did have such an account which was used at times for government business.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2006%20of%2010/view
	pg 53

	The instant communication documents an analysis conducted by the author regarding the Department of State (DoS) tenure e-mail correspondence between the personal accounts of HILLARY CLINTON (hdr22@clintonemail.com) and HUMA ABEDIN (huma@clintonemail.com). The author analyzed e-mail correspondence across the various datasets acquired by the FBI during the course of its investigation. Ultimately, the author identified approximately 1,539 direct e-mails between hdr22@clinconemail.com and huma@clintonemail.com (i.e., no other email address was party to the e-mail communication) which were not provided to DOS by Clinton in December in 2014, but were assessed by the FBI to be work-related.


http://www.cbsnews.com/news/report-fbi-pulls-deleted-emails-from-hillary-clintons-server/
	The FBI has salvaged work and personal emails thought to have been deleted from the private server Hillary Clinton used while she was secretary of state, Bloomberg first reported Tuesday night.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2006%20of%2010/view
	...the process used by CLINTON's legal team to determine which of CLINTON's DoS tenure emails were work-related was possibly flawed in its handling of email correspondence between CLINTON and ABEDIN's huma@clintonemail.com address.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2010%20of%2010/view
	pg 6

	Key Findings

	- Analysis of two datasets in the FBI's possession revealed approximately 1,539 unique work-related e-emails involving only two parties: hdr22@clintonemail.com and huma@clintonemail.com (hereafter, referred to as "CA party e-mails"). Hillary Clinton's legal team only turned over 32 CA party emails to the State Department on December 2014.

	- When conducing their review of the ~60,000 emails, Hillary Clinton's legal team possibly failed to assess the entirety of huma@clintonemail.com (hereafter, "Huma CE") e-mail correspondence with Clinton determine which were work-related. All Huma CE e-mails in the 30,524 e-mail dataset contained another search term used in the legal team review process (e.g., names and emails of key individuals, "Libya," "Benghazi"), indicating Huma CE and Abedin's name were possibly not used as their own search terms to identify those emails for production.	


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	GOWDY: Secretary Clinton said neither she nor anyone else deleted work related e-mails from her personal account. Was that true?

	COMEY: That’s a harder one to answer. We found traces of work- related e-mails in — on devices or in slack space. Whether they were deleted or whether when the server was changed out something happened to them. There’s no doubt that the work-related e-mails that were removed electronically from the e-mail system.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2006%20of%2010/view
	...the analysis detailed in this communication does not represent the entirety of the work-related e-mails recovered by the FBI.


http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/dec/19/judge-orders-release-fbi-search-warrant-huma-abedi/
	A federal judge on Monday ordered the administration to release the search warrant that the FBI used to probe Huma Abedin’s emails in the waning days of the presidential election...


http://i2.cdn.turner.com/cnn/2016/images/12/20/weinerwarrant.pdf
	UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

	In matter of the Search of ... A Laptop Computer

	...The FBI's investigation determined that [REDACTED], using [REDACTED] various email accounts, typically communicated with Clinton's @clintonemail.com email account on a daily basis. Analysis of emails in the FBI's possession revealed more than 4,000 work-related emails between [REDACTED] and Clinton from 2009 to 2013.

	...Given the information indicated that there are thousands of [REDACTED] emails located on the Subject laptop ... including from [REDACTED] account as well as a [REDACTED] account appearing to belong to [REDACTED]--and the regular email correspondence between [REDACTED] and Clinton, there is probable cause to believe that the Subject laptop contains correspondence between [REDACTED] and Clinton...


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/10/28/a-british-tabloid-story-is-the-reason-for-hillary-clintons-new-fbi-nightmare/
	The tabloid story that led to Anthony Weiner’s guilty plea — and Hillary Clinton’s nightmare

	...In the course of investigating Weiner, the FBI discovered on his laptop emails from Huma Abedin, Weiner's wife and a top Clinton aide. The agency deemed the emails relevant to a separate (previously closed) investigation of Clinton's use of a private email server during her tenure as secretary of state, and notified Congress that it was reopening the Clinton probe...


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	QUESTION: Madam Secretary?

	CLINTON: Hi.

	QUESTION: How could the public be assured that when you deleted emails that were personal in nature, that you didn't also delete emails that were professional, but possibly unflattering?

	And what do you think about this Republican idea of having an independent third party come in an examine your emails?

	CLINTON: Well first of all, you have to ask that question to every single federal employee, because the way the system works, the federal employee, the individual, whether they have one device, two devices, three devices, how many addresses, they make the decision.

	So, even if you have a work-related device with a work-related .gov account, you choose what goes on that. That is the way our system works. And so we trust and count on the judgment of thousands, maybe millions of people to make those decisions.

	And I feel that I did that and even more, that I went above and beyond what I was requested to do. And again, those will be out in the public domain, and people will be able to judge for themselves.


http://www.cnn.com/2016/09/07/politics/hillary-clinton-colin-powell-emails/index.html
	The FBI's report on Clinton's email use includes information about Powell's warning to Clinton that using a government email meant her messages would become public.

	In the email exchange Powell wrote "there is a real danger."

	"Government or not, to do business, it may become an official record and subject to the law," he said.

	He added: "Be very careful ... I got around it all by not saying much and not using systems that captured the data."


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	DUNCAN: Right. And it also is accurate that, quote, “Clinton’s lawyers cleaned their devices in such a way as to preclude complete forensic recovery.”

	COMEY: Correct.

	...JORDAN: Did Secretary Clinton know that her lawyers cleaned devices in such a way to preclude forensic recovery?

	COMEY: I don’t believe she did.


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/09/best-of-clinton-fbi-report-227692
	1. The ‘oh shit’ moment

	After Clinton’s staff members completed their response to the State Department for her email records in December 2014, Clinton said she told staff that she did not need them anymore.

	“In or around this same timeframe the retention policy for her email was changed as part of her move to a new personal office account,” the FBI stated in notes from Clinton’s interview.

	Former chief of staff Cheryl Mills said that Clinton in December 2014 decided she did not need access to any of her emails older than 60 days. But, according to a redacted source, another redacted entity did not modify the retention policy on Clinton’s clintonemail.com account until March 2015.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	pg 18

	On March 2, 2015, The New York Times (NYT) published an article titled "Hillary Clinton used Personal Email Account at State Dept, Possibly Breaking Rules"

	...On March 3, 2015, the United States House Select Committee on Benghazi provided a letter to Williams & Connolly requesting preservation

	...In the days following the publication of the NYT article, Mills requested that PRN conduct a complete inventory of all equipment related to the Pagliano server.

	...on March 25, 2015, PRN held a conference call with President Clinton's staff. In his interview with the FBI, [REDACTED] indicated that sometime between March 25-31, 2015, he realized he did not make the e-mail retention policy changes to Clinton's clintonemail.com e-mail account that Mills had requested in December 2014. In his FBI interview on February 18, 2016, [REDACTED] indicated that he did not recall conducting deletions based upon this realization. In a follow-up FBI interview on May 3, 2016, [REDACTED] indicated he believed he had an "oh shit" moment and sometime between March 25-31, 2015 deleted the Clinton archive mailbox from the PRN server and used BleachBit to delete the exported .PST files he had created on the server system containing Clinton's e-mails. Investigation found evidence of these deletions and determined the Datto backups of the PRN Server were also manually deleted during this timeframe. Investigation identified a PRN work ticketed, which referenced a conference call among PRN, Kendall, and Mills on March 31, 2015. PRN's attorney advised [REDACTED] not to comment on the conversation with Kendall based upon the assertion of the attorney-client privilege.

	...[REDACTED] advised during his February 18, 2016 interview that he did not recall seeing the preservation request ...During his May 3, 2016 interview, [REDACTED] indicated that, at the time he made the deletions in March 2015, he was aware of the existence of the preservation request and the fact that it meant he should not disturb Clinton's e-mail data on the PRN Server.

	...Mills stated she was unaware that [REDACTED] had conducted these deletions and modifications in March 2015. Clinton stated she was also unaware of the March 2015 e-mail deletions by PRN.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2003%20of%2010/view
	[REDACTED] was asked to delete approximately two emails related to the public release of Secretary CLINTON's emails. The request was in relation to cleaning unclassified State systems, however, due to an FBI preservation request, [REDACTED] had not deleted any communications. He recalled one of the emails being from an Ambassador and began with a phrase similar to "My classnet is down, so I'll start here..."


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	Now, that seems to me to provide some context to what took place here. Did Secretary Clinton’s legal team — excuse me, let me ask it this way. Did Secretary Clinton know her legal team deleted those e- mails that they kept from us?

	COMEY: I don’t believe so.

	JORDAN: Did Secretary Clinton approve those e-mails being deleted?

	COMEY: I don’t think there was any specific instruction or conversation between the Secretary and her lawyers about that.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	pg 18

	Clinton told the FBI that, after her staff completed her e-mail production to State in December 2014, she was asked what she wanted to do with her remaining personal e-mails, Clinton instructed her staff she no longer needed the e-mails. Clinton stated she never deleted, nor did she instruct anyone to delete, her e-mails to avoid complying with FOIA, State or FBI requests for information. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	CLINTON: ...At the end, I chose not to keep my private personal emails -- emails about planning Chelsea's wedding or my mother's funeral arrangements, condolence notes to friends as well as yoga routines, family vacations


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2004%20of%2010/view
	pg 49

	[REDACTED] did not interact with CLINTON nor MILLS via email, but sometimes he would receive a forwarded email with their accounts listed on the chain. [REDACTED] remembered receiving email chains that contained Clintonfoundation.org accounts


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/emails-reveal-how-foundation-donors-got-access-to-clinton-and-her-close-aides-at-state-dept/2016/08/22/345b5200-6882-11e6-8225-fbb8a6fc65bc_story.html
	Emails reveal how foundation donors got access to Clinton and her close aides at State Dept. 

	...In each case, according to emails released Monday from Hillary Clinton’s time as secretary of state, the requests were directed to Clinton’s deputy chief of staff and confidante, Huma Abedin


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2001%20of%2010/view
	The following day, the House Select Committee on Benghazi issued a subpoena to Clinton to produce e-mails from hdr22@clintonemail.com, hrod17@clintonemail.com, and other e-mail addresses used by CLinton, pursuant to the events surrounding the 2012 terrorist attack in Benghazi.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2004%20of%2010/view
	pg 51

	Before IPS conducted their review of the Benghazi request, [REDACTED] Attorney, Office of the Legal Adviser performed their own, independent review of the 296 Benghazi-related emails. [REDACTED] review team used different [points of contact (POC)] at other agencies to review the 296 emails for a classification determination. [REDACTED] did not know why: 1) [REDACTED] team did a review, as that was IPS' purview; 2) why [REDACTED] team used different POCs than the regular POCs IPS used; 3) what review criteria and/or parameters [REDACTED] team used during their review; and 4) why [REDACTED] team reviewed and produced the 296 emails to the House Committee prior to IPS conducting their formal review.

	pg 54

	...IPS felt the 7th floor, or leading leading STATE officials, had their own ideas on how to formally review the 296 emails. KENNEDY's initial idea for how to review...

	...IPS felt immense pressure to complete the review quickly and to not label anything as classified.


http://www.bbc.com/news/election-us-2016-37683119
	Clinton emails: 'Quid pro quo' bid to bury Benghazi message

	A State Department official offered a "quid pro quo" deal if the FBI would change the classification of a Hillary Clinton email, FBI documents indicate.

	Patrick Kennedy, an undersecretary of state, had asked the email be downgraded to a lower category.

	In exchange, an FBI agent said, Mr Kennedy offered to accept an FBI request for extra agents at foreign diplomatic posts. 


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/10/fbi-state-department-clinton-email-229880
	Kennedy was also involved in ... "The Shadow Government"


http://www.cnbc.com/2016/10/17/fbi-releases-100-new-pages-on-clinton-email-probe.html
	"There was a powerful group of very high-ranking STATE officials that some referred to as 'The 7th Floor Group' or 'The Shadow Government.' This group met every Wednesday afternoon to discuss the FOIA process, Congressional records, and everything CLINTON-related to FOIA/Congressional inquiries," the FBI's interview summary said. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	QUESTION: Can you explain how you decided which of the personal e-mails to get rid of, how you got rid of them and when? And how you'll respond to questions about you being the arbiter of what you release? 

	CLINTON: ...In going through the e-mails, there were over 60,000 in total, sent and received. About half were work-related and went to the State Department and about half were personal that were not in any way related to my work. I had no reason to save them, but that was my decision because the federal guidelines are clear and the State Department request was clear.

	For any government employee, it is that government employee's responsibility to determine what's personal and what's work-related. I am very confident of the process that we conducted and the e-mails that were produced. 


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	...CLINTON expected her team to provide any work-related or arguably work-related emails to State; however, she did not participate in the development of the specific process to be used or discussions of the locations where her emails might exist. Additionally, CLINTON was not consulted on specific emails as to their content being work-related or not.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	JORDAN: And what were the date parameters? What -- what date did you start, what was the end date, and the e-mails in between that we're going to look at?

	CLINTON: Well, Congressman, I asked my attorneys to oversee the process. I did not look over their shoulder. I did not dictate how they would do it. I did not ask what they were doing and how they made their determinations (ph).

	JORDAN: So you don't know? You don't know what terms they used to determine which ones were your e-mails and which ones the State Department got, and therefore we might get?

	CLINTON: You know, The State Department had between 90 and 95 percent of all the ones that were work related. They were already on the system. In fact, this committee got e-mails...


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	CHAFFETZ: And did they see any classified information? Did Hillary Clinton’s attorneys, without security clearances, see classified information?

	COMEY: As (ph) I sit here, I don’t know the answer to that.

	CHAFFETZ: It has to be yes Director, you came across 110 and they said they went through all of them.

	COMEY: Well, they didn’t read them all they just looked at headings (ph)…

	CHAFFETZ: So their excuse is we saw the e-mails but we didn’t read them?


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2004%20of%2010/view
	pg 39

	On August 17, 2015, KATHERINE M. TURNER, Partner at the law offices of Williams & Connolly LLP ... met at her place of employment with agents of the FBI to discuss voluntarily turning over six (6) laptop computers known to contain Top Secret classified information.

	...TURNER acknowledged that these laptops contain Top Secret email communications

	...[REDACTED] admitted that the computer in his possession has been connected to the Internet on numerous occasions subsequent to being loaded with the classified email communications of HILLARY CLINTON.

	...Both [REDACTED] and TURNER admitted that the emails contained on these laptops had been viewed by attorneys who did not have a security clearance at the time they reviewed the material.


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	COMEY: You know I think I said this in my statement on Tuesday, they sorted the e-mails by using headers and search terms to try and find work related e-mails, we read them all.

	CHAFFETZ: I know that you read them all. Do you think it’s reasonable or unreasonable to think that her attorneys, under her director, did or did not read those e-mails? Because there were — let me go back to this, yes or no, were there or were there not classified e-mails that her — that Hillary Clinton’s attorneys read?

	COMEY: I don’t know whether they read them at the time.

	CHAFFETZ: They — did Hillary Clinton give non-cleared people access to classified information?

	COMEY: Yes. Yes.

	CHAFFETZ: What do you think her intent was?

	COMEY: I think then was to get good legal representation and to make the production to the State Department. That can be a very tall order, in that circumstance (ph) I don’t see the evidence there to make a case that she was acting with criminal intent in her engagement with her lawyers.

	CHAFFETZ: And I’d just — I guess I read criminal intent as the idea that you allow somebody without a security clearance access to classified information. Everybody knows that Director, everybody knows that.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	JORDAN: I appreciate -- let -- and let's get into that.

	Those 55,000 pages, there were 62,00 e-mails -- total e-mails, on your system. You have stated that you used a multi-step process to determine which ones were private, which ones were public, which ones belonged to you and your family, which ones belonged to the taxpayer.

	Who oversaw this multi-step process in making that determination which ones we might get and which ones that were personal?

	CLINTON: That was overseen by my attorneys and they conducted a rigorous review of my e-mails and...

	JORDAN: These are the folks sitting behind you there, Mr. Kendall, Ms. Mills...

	CLINTON: Yes, that's right.

	JORDAN: ...Ms. Danielsen (ph)? All right.

	And you said rigorous. What does that mean?

	CLINTON: It means that they were asked to provide anything that could be possibly construed as work related. In fact, in my opinion -- and that's been confirmed by both the State Department...

	JORDAN: But I'm asking how -- I'm asking how it was done. Was -- did someone physically look at the 62,000 e-mails, or did you use search terms, date parameters? I want to know the specifics.

	CLINTON: They did all of that, and I did not look over their shoulders, because I thought it would be appropriate for them to conduct that search, and they did.

	JORDAN: Will you provide this committee -- or can you answer today, what were the search terms? 	
	CLINTON: The search terms were everything you could imagine that might be related to anything


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2006%20of%2010/view
	pg 54

	...each of the 32 e-mails contained references to either "Benghazi," "Libya," or "Tripoli." Consequently, the 32 e-mails possibly were provided to DOS because they hit on those search terms


http://thehill.com/policy/national-security/293837-fbi-recovers-30-clinton-emails-involving-benghazi-attack
	FBI recovers 30 deleted Clinton emails involving Benghazi attack


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	CLINTON: ...but they also went through every single e-mail.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	After reviewing an email dated November 26, 2010 with the subject line "Mbz Call - 7:15am," CLINTON stated she recalled the time period of the WikiLeaks disclosures because it was a difficult time for State. She spent long hours on the phone with foreign diplomats addressing the WikiLeaks disclosures and ensuring no one was in danger as a result of the disclosures. Regarding the specific email, CLINTON did not know why it was not in the approximately 30,000 emails produced to State, and, based on its content, would expect it to be considered work-related.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/03/10/transcript-hillary-clinton-addresses-e-mails-iran/
	GOWDY: Madam Secretary, is there any question that the 15 that James Cole turned over to us were work related? There's no ambiguity about that. They were work related.

	CLINTON: No. They were from a personal friend, not any official government -- not any government official. And they were, I determined on the basis of looking at them, what I thought was work related and what wasn't. And some I didn't even have time to read, Mr. Chairman. 

	...GOWDY: The 15 -- my question to you, on the 15, did your lawyers find them and decide that they were not work related or did they not find them?

	CLINTON: Well, I don't know why he had emails I didn't. And I don't know why, apparently, I had emails he didn't. And all I can tell you is that I turned over every work related email in my possession.


http://thehill.com/policy/national-security/290906-deleted-clinton-emails-might-remain-secret-until-after-election
	The FBI says it found “several thousand” work-related emails Clinton deleted, but the State Department has not committed to a schedule for their release


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	CONNOLLY: Was she evasive?

	COMEY: I don’t think the agents assessed she was evasive.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	CLINTON had no knowledge regarding the following topics:

	- The creation, storage, transfer, or access to an archive of her email created by MONICA HANLEY in the Spring of 2013

	- The specific process and procedures used by CLINTON's legal team and PRN to separate her work and personal email

	- Discussions of federal records related to the Apple, Pagliano, or PRN servers

	- The existence of any copies of her clintonemail.com emails, other than what has been provided to the FBI and State

	- March 2015 deletions by PRN


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	...CLINTON did not have any conversations with regard to using the server to avoid the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), and specifically denied using the server to avoid Federal Records Act (FRA) requirements. Based on her practice of emailing staff on their state.gov accounts, CLINTON assumed her communications were captured by State systems. CLINTON was not aware of State employee [REDACTED] expressing concerns CLINTON's email server was not compliant with the FRA.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/09/02/the-many-things-hillary-clinton-couldnt-recall-in-her-fbi-interview/
 	Hillary Clinton told the FBI she couldn’t recall something more than three dozen times 


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	GROTHMAN: Do you think Mrs. Clinton knew that the technical people were erasing these e-mails so that even your top technical experts could recover them?

	COMEY: Based on my sense now for technical sophistication, I — I — I don’t think so.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/timeline-hillary-clintons-email-saga/story?id=29442707
	Hillary Clinton was recorded telling a donor that she didn't like using email.

	Home video footage from 2000, shot at a fundraiser by a donor, Peter Paul, showed then-Sen. Clinton talking about how she had chosen to avoid email for fear of leaving a paper trail.

	"As much as I’ve been investigated and all of that, you know, why would I? -- I don’t even want -- Why would I ever want to do e-mail?" Clinton said.

	"Can you imagine?" she asked.



Clinton testified to Congress that she all emails she "decided that were work related [she] forwarded to the state.gov accounts of the people with whom [she] worked," and Clinton swore under penalty of perjury that 1. She turned over all work related emails to the State Department and 2. She knew Huma Abedin used an account on Clinton's private server to conduct government business. But the FBI found "1,539 direct e-mails between hdr22@clinconemail.com and huma@clintonemail.com," saying this is only a subset of the work-related emails between Clinton and Abedin on her personal server (an FBI warrant suggests 4,000). It is inconceivable that Clinton knew Abedin was using an account on her server for work, sent her work-related emails 1,539 to 4,000 times, yet forgot to turn these emails over to the State Department.

This means Clinton either lied under oath to Congress, or really thinks those 1,539 to 4,000 emails weren't work-related (it sounds like at least 2 of them were classified: http://i2.cdn.turner.com/cnn/2017/images/05/09/2017-05-09.fbi.to.ceg.-.comey.testimony.supplement.pdf). Lying under oath about her failure to turn over her work-related emails to the Government would be evidence that Clinton was trying to hide something and knew what she was doing was wrong. Still, for whatever reason, Comey didn't review Clinton's statements to Congress before his recommendation not to indict. 

Clinton's statements to the press also suggest she knew she was doing something wrong. She told the public it was her responsibility to decide which of her emails are work-related:

	QUESTION: How could the public be assured that when you deleted emails that were personal in nature, that you didn't also delete emails that were professional, but possibly unflattering? ...

	CLINTON: Well first of all, you have to ask that question to every single federal employee, because the way the system works, the federal employee, the individual, whether they have one device, two devices, three devices, how many addresses, they make the decision.

	...CLINTON: ...For any government employee, it is that government employee's responsibility to determine what's personal and what's work-related. 


But she told the FBI she left that entirely to her lawyers:


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	...CLINTON expected her team to provide any work-related or arguably work-related emails to State; however, she did not participate in the development of the specific process to be used or discussions of the locations where her emails might exist. Additionally, CLINTON was not consulted on specific emails as to their content being work-related or not.


This would open-up the opportunity for Clinton to abuse attorney-client privilege and direct her lawyers to delete federal records she wouldn't want made public (although there is one relevant exception http://www.huffingtonpost.com/brad-reid/the-crime-fraud-exception_b_8806598.html). Clinton's lawyers at least seemed to have attorney-client privilege in mind:


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2004%20of%2010/view
	pg 39

	TURNER acknowledged that these laptops contain Top Secret email communications and attorney/client privileged communications. TURNER sought to turn over the laptops as soon as possible but wished to ensure that privileged communications on the laptops would remain confidential. TURNER declined to provide consent to search the laptops

	...According to [REDACTED] SAMUELSON deleted CLINTON's personal emails from the original 60,000 resulting in the 30,490 emails eventually turned over to the FBI.


Clinton's lawyers told the FBI they deleted Clinton's "personal" emails--thousands of which were later found to be work-related--but Comey had trouble relaying that to Congress:


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	GOWDY: Secretary Clinton said neither she nor anyone else deleted work related e-mails from her personal account. Was that true?

	COMEY: That’s a harder one to answer. We found traces of work- related e-mails in — on devices or in slack space. Whether they were deleted or whether when the server was changed out something happened to them. There’s no doubt that the work-related e-mails that were removed electronically from the e-mail system.


Comey also said Clinton's lawyers "didn't read" all of Clinton's emails and "just looked at the headings," then when pressed changes his story to "I don’t know whether they read them at the time:"


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	CHAFFETZ: I asked you at the very beginning, does Hillary Clinton, is there a reasonable expectation that Hillary Clinton would send and receive if not day — hourly if not daily, classified information. That’s reasonable to think that the Secretary of State would get classified information every moment. She’s not the head of Fish and Wildlife so the idea that she would turn over her e-mails, her system, her server to, what it sounds like, up to ten people without security clearances and there’s no consequence. So why not do it again?

	COMEY: That’s a question I don’t think you should put to me, you’re asking — I’m talking about my criminal investigation.

	CHAFFETZ: But how can that — there’s no intent there, does she not understand that these people don’t have security clearances?

	COMEY: Surely she understands at least some of them don’t have security clearances.

	CHAFFETZ: So she understands they don’t have security clearances and it’s reasonable to think she’s going to be in (ph) classified information. Is that not intent to provide a non-cleared person access to classified information?

	COMEY: You’re mixing it up though. I don’t think it’s reasonable to assume — mixing me up, sorry, not your fault — that someone who is maintaining your server is reading your e-mails, in fact I don’t think that’s the case here. There’s a separate thing which is when she is engaging counsel (ph) to comply with the State Department’s request, are her lawyers then exposed information that may be on there that’s classified, so…

	CHAFFETZ: And did they see any classified information? Did Hillary Clinton’s attorneys, without security clearances, see classified information?

	COMEY: As (ph) I sit here, I don’t know the answer to that.

	CHAFFETZ: It has to be yes Director, you came across 110 and they said they went through all of them.

	COMEY: Well, they didn’t read them all they just looked at headings (ph)…

	CHAFFETZ: So their excuse is we saw the e-mails but we didn’t read them?

	COMEY: You know I think I said this in my statement on Tuesday, they sorted the e-mails by using headers and search terms to try and find work related e-mails, we read them all.

	CHAFFETZ: I know that you read them all. Do you think it’s reasonable or unreasonable to think that her attorneys, under her director, did or did not read those e-mails? Because there were — let me go back to this, yes or no, were there or were there not classified e-mails that her — that Hillary Clinton’s attorneys read?

	COMEY: I don’t know whether they read them at the time.

	CHAFFETZ: They — did Hillary Clinton give non-cleared people access to classified information?

	COMEY: Yes. Yes.

	CHAFFETZ: What do you think her intent was?

	COMEY: I think then was to get good legal representation and to make the production to the State Department. That can be a very tall order, in that circumstance (ph) I don’t see the evidence there to make a case that she was acting with criminal intent in her engagement with her lawyers.

	CHAFFETZ: And I’d just — I guess I read criminal intent as the idea that you allow somebody without a security clearance access to classified information. Everybody knows that Director, everybody knows that. 


But Clinton's lawyers told the FBI that they read some of the emails individually, didn't have security clearances, and that they knew they were in possession of Top Secret classified information:


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2004%20of%2010/view
	pg 39

	On August 17, 2015, KATHERINE M. TURNER, Partner at the law offices of Williams & Connolly LLP ... met at her place of employment with agents of the FBI to discuss voluntarily turning over six (6) laptop computers known to contain Top Secret classified information.

	...TURNER acknowledged that these laptops contain Top Secret email communications

	...[REDACTED] admitted that the computer in his possession has been connected to the Internet on numerous occasions subsequent to being loaded with the classified email communications of HILLARY CLINTON.

	...Both [REDACTED] and TURNER admitted that the emails contained on these laptops had been viewed by attorneys who did not have a security clearance at the time they reviewed the material. TURNER said the emails did not contain classification markers and thus they were not aware that they were classified at the time.


Clinton had reason to believe there was classified information on her server. Even still, she gave people without a security clearance access to this information (and with an expectation that they would access this information), which is a felony. Comey said this is OK because Clinton's "intent" was "to get good legal representation and to make the production to the State Department," which "can be a very tall order, in that circumstance."

That Clinton chose to use a convoluted, legally risky, and ultimately inadequate method for turning over her work-related emails could also be used to argue that Clinton intended to hide federal records on her email server from the public. There are other reasons to suspect this was Clinton's intent.

The Clinton Foundation had come under scrutiny for some unusual patterns in its donations and lapses in transparency. Clinton had stepped down from her foundation, but her husband had not. When confronted with this, Clinton dodged the question and defended her foundation's conduct.


Claim #4: The Clinton Foundation had "overwhelming disclosure:"


http://edition.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1606/08/acd.01.html
	COOPER: ...The foundation has obviously, raised huge sums of money for worthy causes. It's always not been transparent though. Tens of millions come from a Canadian partnership whose donors remain secret. There was a large donation from Algeria that wasn't submitted to State Department for approval. If you're president, will your husband divest himself of any association with the foundation? 

	CLINTON: Well, Anderson, we'll cross that bridge if and when we come to it, but let me try to set the record straight. We had absolutely overwhelming disclosure. Were there one or two instances that slipped through the cracks, yes. But was the overwhelming amount of anything that anybody gave the foundation disclosed, absolutely. 


http://media.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/politics/documents/memorandum_of_understanding_clinton.pdf
	WHEREAS, the Parties also seek to ensure that the activities of the Foundation, however beneficial, do not create conflicts or the appearance of conflicts for Senator Clinton as Secretary of State.

	WHEREAS the Parties have agreed to a set of protocols that would apply to the Foundation's activities to supplement any existing State Department protocols for managing conflicts of interests, and the appearance of conflicts of interest, as determined by the State Department's designated agency ethics official

	WHEREAS, the Parties seek to memorialize the mutually agreeable protocols related to the activities of the Foundation during the period in which Senator Hillary Clinton Serves in the Obama Administration.

	NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows: 

	...Publication of Foundation Contributors. In anticipation of Senator Clinton's nomination and confirmation as Secretary of State, the Foundation will publish its contributors this year. During any service by Senator Clinton as Secretary of State, the Foundation will publish annually the names of new contributors. 


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-clinton-donations-idUSKBN0MF2FQ20150319
	Exclusive: Despite Hillary Clinton promise, charity did not disclose donors

 	In 2008, Hillary Clinton promised Barack Obama, the president-elect, there would be no mystery about who was giving money to her family's globe-circling charities. She made a pledge to publish all the donors on an annual basis to ease concerns that as secretary of state she could be vulnerable to accusations of foreign influence.

	At the outset, the Clinton Foundation did indeed publish what they said was a complete list of the names of more than 200,000 donors and has continued to update it. But in a breach of the pledge, the charity's flagship health program, which spends more than all of the other foundation initiatives put together, stopped making the annual disclosure in 2010, Reuters has found.

	In response to questions from Reuters, officials at the Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI) and the foundation confirmed no complete list of donors to the Clintons' charities has been published since 2010. CHAI was spun off as a separate legal entity that year, but the officials acknowledged it still remains subject to the same disclosure agreement as the foundation.  

	The finding could renew scrutiny of Clinton's promises of transparency as she prepares to launch her widely expected bid for the White House in the coming weeks.

	...The State Department said it was unable to cite any instances of its officials reviewing or approving new money from any foreign governments. Daley confirmed that none of the seven government donations had been submitted to the State Department for review.


http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/293507-seven-ways-the-clinton-foundation-failed-to-meet-its-transparency-promises
	Seven ways the Clinton Foundation failed to meet its transparency promises


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/foreign-governments-gave-millions-to-foundation-while-clinton-was-at-state-dept/2015/02/25/31937c1e-bc3f-11e4-8668-4e7ba8439ca6_story.html
	In one instance, foundation officials acknowledged they should have sought approval in 2010 from the State Department ethics office, as required by the agreement for new government donors, before accepting a $500,000 donation from the Algerian government.

	The money was given to assist with earthquake relief in Haiti, the foundation said. At the time, Algeria, which has sought a closer relationship with Washington, was spending heavily to lobby the State Department on human rights issues.

	While the foundation has disclosed foreign-government donors for years, it has not previously detailed the donations that were accepted during Clinton’s four-year stint at the State Department.


http://www.npr.org/sections/itsallpolitics/2015/05/19/407981227/after-a-month-the-7-questions-hillary-clinton-answered-from-the-media
	"Secretary Clinton, do you regret the way that the Clinton foundation handled foreign donations when you were secretary of state? And your opponents say that the foreign donations and private emails are examples of the Clintons having one set of rules for themselves and one for everyone else. Do they have a point?"

	Clinton: "I am so proud of the foundation. I'm proud of the work that it has done and it is doing. It attracted donations from people, organizations from around the world and I think that just goes to show that people are very supportive of the lifesaving and life-changing work it's done here at home and elsewhere.

	"And I'll let the American people make their own judgments about that."


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-foundation-idUSKBN12Z2SL
	Clinton's charity confirms Qatar's $1 million gift while she was at State Dept

	Clinton signed an ethics agreement governing her family's globe-straddling foundation in order to become secretary of state in 2009. The agreement was designed to increase transparency to avoid appearances that U.S. foreign policy could be swayed by wealthy donors.

	If a new foreign government wished to donate or if an existing foreign-government donor, such as Qatar, wanted to "increase materially" its support of ongoing programs, Clinton promised that the State Department's ethics official would be notified and given a chance to raise any concerns.

	Clinton Foundation officials last month declined to confirm the Qatar donation.

	...Foundation officials told Reuters last year that they did not always comply with central provisions of the agreement with President Barack Obama's administration, blaming oversights in some cases.

	At least eight other countries besides Qatar gave new or increased funding to the foundation, in most cases to fund its health project, without the State Department being informed, according to foundation and agency records. They include Algeria, which gave for the first time in 2010, and the United Kingdom, which nearly tripled its support for the foundation's health project to $11.2 million between 2009 and 2012.


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-clinton-taxes-exclusive-idUSKBN0NE0CA20150423
	Hillary Clinton's family's charities are refiling at least five annual tax returns after a Reuters review found errors in how they reported donations from governments, and said they may audit other Clinton Foundation returns in case of other errors.

	...The charities' errors generally take the form of under-reporting or over-reporting, by millions of dollars, donations from foreign governments, or in other instances omitting to break out government donations entirely when reporting revenue, the charities confirmed to Reuters.

	...The unsettled numbers on the tax returns are not evidence of wrongdoing but tend to undermine the 990s role as a form of public accountability, experts in charity law and transparency advocates told Reuters.


http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/13/us/politics/13text-clinton.html
	CLINTON: ...My husband doesn't take a salary. He has no financial interests in any of this. I don't take a salary. I have no financial interests. So out of that abundance of caution and a desire to avoid even the appearance, the president-elect's transition team began working with the foundation to try to craft an agreement that would avoid the appearance of a conflict but would also ensure that the foundation can continue its work.


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/onpolitics/2016/10/27/memo-shows-bill-clintons-wealth-tied-clinton-foundation/92842822/
	Doug Band, a long-time aide to Bill Clinton, wrote the 2011 memo as part of an internal audit at the Clinton Foundation. In trying to explain his role in the Foundation, Band also brought up a series of instances he and his consulting company, Teneo Holdings, helped Bill Clinton secure for-profit contracts.

	The memo, which was being circulated to some in Clinton's inner circle including Podesta, reinforces Republican criticisms of the blurred lines between the foundation and professional interests of the Clintons and their associates.

	“Independent of our fundraising and decision-making activities on behalf of the Foundation, we have dedicated ourselves to helping the President secure and engage in for-profit activities — including speeches, books, and advisory service engagements," Band wrote. "In that context, we have in effect served as agents, lawyers, managers and implementers to secure speaking, business and advisory service deals. In support of the President’s for-profit activity, we also have solicited and obtained, as appropriate, in-kind services for the President and his family — for personal travel, hospitality, vacation and the like.”

	At one point, Band even referred to the former president’s money-making enterprises as “Bill Clinton, Inc.”


http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/24/us/cash-flowed-to-clinton-foundation-as-russians-pressed-for-control-of-uranium-company.html
	Cash Flowed to Clinton Foundation Amid Russian Uranium Deal

	Before Mrs. Clinton could assume her post as secretary of state, the White House demanded that she sign a memorandum of understanding placing limits on the activities of her husband’s foundation. To avoid the perception of conflicts of interest, beyond the ban on foreign government donations, the foundation was required to publicly disclose all contributors.

	To judge from those disclosures — which list the contributions in ranges rather than precise amounts — the only Uranium One official to give to the Clinton Foundation was Mr. Telfer, the chairman, and the amount was relatively small: no more than $250,000, and that was in 2007, before talk of a Rosatom deal began percolating.

	But a review of tax records in Canada, where Mr. Telfer has a family charity called the Fernwood Foundation, shows that he donated millions of dollars more, during and after the critical time when the foreign investment committee was reviewing his deal with the Russians. With the Russians offering a special dividend, shareholders like Mr. Telfer stood to profit.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/hillary-clinton-republicans-talking/story?id=30455226
	Q: Secretary Clinton your reaction please to these book allegations--did foreign entities receive any special treatment from making any kind of donations to the Clinton Foundation or your husband?

	CLINTON: Well, we're back into the political season, and therefore we will be subjected to all kinds of distractions and attacks, and I'm ready for that. I know that that comes, unfortunately, with the territory. It is, um, I think worth noting that uh, the Republicans seem to be, uh, talking only about me. I don't know what they'd talk about if I weren't in the race


http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/24/us/cash-flowed-to-clinton-foundation-as-russians-pressed-for-control-of-uranium-company.html
	...And shortly after the Russians announced their intention to acquire a majority stake in Uranium One, Mr. Clinton received $500,000 for a Moscow speech from a Russian investment bank with links to the Kremlin that was promoting Uranium One stock.


http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/13/us/politics/13text-clinton.html
	CLINTON:  ...In this particular case, the Office of Government Ethics and the career ethics officials at the State Department have looked at the rules and concluded there is not an inherent conflict of interest in any of my husband's work at all.

	However, the foundation and the president-elect decided to go beyond what the law and the ethics rules call for to address even the appearance of conflict and that is why they signed a memorandum of understanding, which outlines the voluntary steps that the foundation is taking to address potential concerns that might come up down the road.


http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/13/us/politics/13text-clinton.html
	...Uranium One began to snap up companies with assets in the United States. 
	
	...Still, the company’s story was hardly front-page news in the United States — until early 2008, in the midst of Mrs. Clinton’s failed presidential campaign, when The Times published an article revealing the 2005 trip’s link to Mr. Giustra’s Kazakhstan mining deal. It also reported that several months later, Mr. Giustra had donated $31.3 million to Mr. Clinton’s foundation.

	...When ARMZ, an arm of Rosatom, took its first 17 percent stake in Uranium One in 2009, the two parties signed an agreement, found in securities filings, to seek the foreign investment committee’s review. But it was the 2010 deal, giving the Russians a controlling 51 percent stake, that set off alarm bells. 

	...Senator John Barrasso, a Republican from Wyoming, where Uranium One’s largest American operation was, wrote to President Obama, saying the deal “would give the Russian government control over a sizable portion of America’s uranium production capacity.”

	...Uranium One’s shareholders were also alarmed, and were “afraid of Rosatom as a Russian state giant”

	...Two months later, the deal giving ARMZ a controlling stake in Uranium One was submitted to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States for review. Because of the secrecy surrounding the process, it is hard to know whether the participants weighed the desire to improve bilateral relations against the potential risks of allowing the Russian government control over the biggest uranium producer in the United States. The deal was ultimately approved in October, following what two people involved in securing the approval said had been a relatively smooth process.


http://edition.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1606/08/acd.01.html
	COOPER: But some big donors clearly want the association with you or your husband that they linked to the foundation gives them. As president, obviously, it's vital that you and your husband not to appear to be in any way compromised. So I guess have you considered the idea of him stepping down?

	CLINTON: Again, I'm not going to consider anything until we see what the circumstances are. But let me just point out that people give lots of money to presidential campaigns, don't they?

	...COOPER: Out on the campaign trail, one of the things you said several weeks ago is your husband might be put in charge of revitalizing the economy. Is that something you're seriously looking at, a position for him in that regard?

	CLINTON: Well, I'm looking for his good advice and his extraordinary understanding of what we've got to do to help distressed communities...

	...So he has a wealth of experience and I'm looking forward to tapping into that and finding out what we can do...


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/bill-clinton-sought-state-department-paid-speeches-related/story?id=33369277
	Bill Clinton Sought State Department OK For Paid Speeches Related to North Korea, Congo, New E-mails Show

 	...The catch? The dictators of Congo and the Democratic Republic of the Congo would both be attending -- and required photos with Bill Clinton. The speaking fee? A whopping $650,000. 


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/fobs-hillarys-state-dept-gave-special-attention-friends/story?id=42615379
	'FOBs': How Hillary's State Dept. Gave Special Attention to 'Friends of Bill' After Haiti Quake

 	In a series of candid email exchanges with top Clinton Foundation officials during the hours after the massive 2010 Haiti earthquake, a senior aide to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton repeatedly gave special attention to those identified by the abbreviations “FOB” (friends of Bill Clinton) or “WJC VIPs” (William Jefferson Clinton VIPs).

	“Need you to flag when people are friends of WJC,” wrote Caitlin Klevorick, then a senior State Department official who was juggling incoming offers of assistance being funneled to the State Department by the Clinton Foundation. “Most I can probably ID but not all.” 

 	“Is this a FOB!” Klevorick writes later, when a Clinton Foundation aide forwards a woman’s offer of medical supplies. “If not, she should go to cidi.org,” she adds, directing the person deemed not to be a Clinton friend to a general government website. 

	...However noble the motives of the officials working to get supplies into Haiti after the 2010 earthquake, numerous messages show a senior aide to then–Secretary of State Hillary Clinton coordinating with a Clinton Foundation official to identify FOBs. The Clintons have said repeatedly that the State Department never gave favorable treatment to foundation supporters in Haiti or anywhere else.

	“Nothing was ever done for anybody because they were contributors to the foundation,” Bill Clinton told CBS News’ Charlie Rose in September. “Nothing.” 


https://apnews.com/82df550e1ec646098b434f7d5771f625/many-donors-clinton-foundation-met-her-state
	Many donors to Clinton Foundation met with her at State

	More than half the people outside the government who met with Hillary Clinton while she was secretary of state gave money — either personally or through companies or groups — to the Clinton Foundation. It’s an extraordinary proportion indicating her possible ethics challenges if elected president.

	At least 85 of 154 people from private interests who met or had phone conversations scheduled with Clinton while she led the State Department donated to her family charity or pledged commitments to its international programs, according to a review of State Department calendars released so far to The Associated Press. Combined, the 85 donors contributed as much as $156 million. At least 40 donated more than $100,000 each, and 20 gave more than $1 million.

	Donors who were granted time with Clinton included an internationally known economist who asked for her help as the Bangladesh government pressured him to resign from a nonprofit bank he ran; a Wall Street executive who sought Clinton’s help with a visa problem; and Estee Lauder executives who were listed as meeting with Clinton while her department worked with the firm’s corporate charity to counter gender-based violence in South Africa.

	The meetings between the Democratic presidential nominee and foundation donors do not appear to violate legal agreements Clinton and former president Bill Clinton signed before she joined the State Department in 2009. But the frequency of the overlaps shows the intermingling of access and donations, and fuels perceptions that giving the foundation money was a price of admission for face time with Clinton. Her calendars and emails released as recently as this week describe scores of contacts she and her top aides had with foundation donors.


http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/13/us/politics/13text-clinton.html
	CLINTON: Well, again, this is an agreement that has been worked out between all of the parties and the fact is that the concerns that were raised in the discussions between the foundation and the president-elect's team were thoroughly discussed and they believe, and I agree, that the transparency and disclosure that is needed, which, as you said yourself, it goes beyond any kind of legal or ethical consideration.

	And not only that, there will be ongoing -- there will be ongoing reviews by anything that is brought to the attention of the career professionals.

	But I just have to go back, Senator, and try to set the record straight. [Clinton Global Initiative] is not in the memorandum of understanding because they already have a practice of disclosing all of their contributions. There is no need to require it.

	I will certainly state here that they're going to continue the practice which they've already done.


https://apnews.com/82df550e1ec646098b434f7d5771f625/many-donors-clinton-foundation-met-her-state
	...American affiliates of his nonprofit Grameen Bank had been working with the Clinton Foundation’s Clinton Global Initiative programs as early as 2005, pledging millions of dollars in microloans for the poor. Grameen America, the bank’s nonprofit U.S. flagship, which Yunus chairs, has given between $100,000 and $250,000 to the foundation

	...“Please see if the issues of Grameen Bank can be raised in a friendly way,” he asked Verveer. Yunus sent “regards to H” and cited an upcoming Clinton Global Initiative event he planned to attend.

	...Clinton ordered an aide: “Give to EAP rep,” referring the problem to the agency’s top east Asia expert.

	...In another case, Clinton was host at a September 2009 breakfast meeting at the New York Stock Exchange that listed Blackstone Group chairman Stephen Schwarzman as one of the attendees. Schwarzman’s firm is a major Clinton Foundation donor, but he personally donates heavily to GOP candidates and causes. One day after the breakfast, according to Clinton emails, the State Department was working on a visa issue at Schwarzman’s request. In December that same year, Schwarzman’s wife, Christine, sat at Clinton’s table during the Kennedy Center Honors. Clinton also introduced Schwarzman, then chairman of the Kennedy Center, before he spoke.


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2003%20of%2010/view
	pg 174

	[REDACTED] was interviewed by Special Agent (SA) [REDACTED] and SA [REDACTED] at the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)

	...[REDACTED] concluded the interview by stating that DOS has shown an increased tendency to communicate via email. He believed that they did this for simplicity, to avoid unauthorized disclosures such as Wikileaks, and to prevent other USG partners from seeing their "back channel" discussions.


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/30/opinion/cutting-ties-to-the-clinton-foundation.html
	Cutting Ties to the Clinton Foundation

	When Mrs. Clinton became secretary of state, the Obama administration tried to draw a line between the foundation, particularly its foreign-government sponsors, and her role. The new emails underscore that this effort was at best partly successful. “Pay-to-play” charges by Donald Trump have not been proved. But the emails and previous reporting suggest Mr. Trump has reason to say that while Mrs. Clinton was secretary, it was hard to tell where the foundation ended and the State Department began.

	Mrs. Clinton became involved in State Department deals and negotiations that also involved foundation donors or board members. She prompted multiple investigations with an arrangement that allowed Huma Abedin, her deputy chief of staff at the State Department and now vice chairwoman of her campaign, to be paid simultaneously by the State Department, the foundation and Teneo, a consulting firm run by Doug Band, the former adviser to Mr. Clinton who helped create the foundation — and who sent emails to Ms. Abedin seeking favors for foundation donors.

	The newly disclosed emails show that some foundation donors and friends, like Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad bin al-Khalifa of Bahrain, used foundation channels to seek access to Mrs. Clinton. 


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/02/us/politics/emails-raise-new-questions-about-clinton-foundation-ties-to-state-dept.html
	Emails Raise New Questions About Clinton Foundation Ties to State Dept.

	WASHINGTON — A top aide to Hillary Clinton at the State Department agreed to try to obtain a special diplomatic passport for an adviser to former President Bill Clinton in 2009, according to emails released Thursday, raising new questions about whether people tied to the Clinton Foundation received special access at the department.

	The exchange about the passport, between Mr. Band and Huma Abedin, who was then a top State Department aide to Mrs. Clinton, was included in a set of more than 500 pages of emails made public by Judicial Watch, a conservative legal group that sued for their release.

	“Need get me/justy and jd dip passports,” Mr. Band wrote to Ms. Abedin on July 27, 2009, referring to passports for himself and two other aides to Mr. Clinton, Justin Cooper and John Davidson.

	“We had them years ago but they lapsed and we didn’t bother getting them,” Mr. Band wrote.

	Ms. Abedin emailed back six minutes later to say, “OK will figure it out.”

	Mr. Band did not explain in the email exchange why he and the others needed the diplomatic passports, and Ms. Abedin did not ask.


http://www.cnn.com/2015/08/27/politics/hillary-clinton-state-department-citizens-united/index.html
	Group: Emails show Clinton, aides mixed State Department, foundation business


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/08/hillary-clinton-emails-state-foundation-226897
 	Ethicists: Clinton team violated ‘spirit’ of pledge 

	The emails, which Clinton failed to include in the “work-related” cache she turned over to the State Department, show open lines of communication between the old Clinton hands running the family’s multimillion-dollar charity and those who’d moved on to help her run the State Department. The State Department was forced to turn over the emails to Judicial Watch, a conservative watchdog group, in a Freedom of Information Act case. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/a-porous-ethical-wall-between-the-clinton-foundation-and-the-state-department/2016/08/14/f068899e-60b8-11e6-af8e-54aa2e849447_story.html
	A porous ethical wall between the Clinton Foundation and the State Department


http://www.mcclatchydc.com/news/politics-government/election/article99388232.html
	Ethics wall between State, Clinton Foundation didn’t extend to staff

	An official at the Clinton Global Initiative sent top State Department aide Melanne Verveer a 63-page list of individuals, groups and companies that had pledged money to its programs.

	An employee at another Clinton Foundation offshoot emailed Verveer looking for a job for a former colleague.

	Yet another asked whether Verveer could persuade Myanmar’s internationally acclaimed leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, to attend an event.

	Verveer, a longtime Hillary Clinton confidante who served as her chief of staff at the White House before becoming ambassador at large for global women’s issues, was in regular contact with Clinton Foundation officials during her four years at the State Department, according to dozens of emails.

	...While Clinton had signed an ethics agreement to largely remove herself from issues involving her family’s foundation after she became the nation’s top diplomat in 2009, the document did not apply to her aides at the State Department.

	...“I'm . . . scratching my head about why people inside the State Department didn't think it was a good idea to insulate senior officials and their staff from any Clinton Foundation activities,” said Scott Amey, general counsel for the Project on Government Oversight. “Restrictions applied to Hillary, but those restrictions should have applied to other officials too.”

	...The emails show the close, friendly relations between State Department and Clinton Foundation officials, providing a level of access that other groups undoubtedly wished they had with the administration.


http://www.cnn.com/2016/08/11/politics/hillary-clinton-cgi-cheryl-mills/index.html
	A top aide to Hillary Clinton at the State Department traveled to New York to interview job candidates for a top job at the Clinton Foundation, a CNN investigation has found.

	The fact that the aide, Cheryl Mills, was taking part in such a high level task for the Clinton foundation while also working as chief of staff for the secretary of state raises new questions about the blurred lines that have dogged the Clintons in recent years.

	...E-mails obtained through the Freedom of Information Act and released by the conservative watchdog group Judicial Watch this week raise new questions about the intermingling of Clinton Foundation business, its donors and employees under Hillary Clinton's control as a public servant. They suggest Foundation officials had no problem trying to curry favor for jobs by emailing top Clinton aides like Mills and Huma Abedin, who is now a senior adviser to Clinton's presidential campaign.


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-clinton-teneo-idUSKCN0SV05M20151106
	The Republican-led Senate Judiciary Committee has been investigating since 2013 whether Teneo had improper access to the highest levels of U.S. government while Clinton, the favorite to become the Democratic Party's presidential nominee, was secretary of state. 

	...Founders and other workers at Teneo have also worked for the Clintons, the State Department, the Clinton Foundation or a combination of the three. Teneo describes itself as "a global advisory firm that partners exclusively with the CEOs and senior leaders of many of the world’s largest and most complex companies and organizations."

	...For a time in 2012 through early 2013, Abedin simultaneously had four overlapping sources of income: the State Department, Teneo, the Clinton Foundation and Clinton's private office.

	...Clinton has said she was not directly involved in getting Abedin the waiver, known as special government employee status, which loosens some ethics restrictions that bind full-time government employees.

	The special status was created in the 1960s to allow the government to temporarily bring in expertise from the private sector.


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/09/mills-immunity-228580
	Top Hillary Clinton aide Cheryl Mills received an immunity deal from the Justice Department in the FBI’s investigation into the former secretary of state’s private email server, records shown to Congress revealed Friday, re-injecting the email controversy into the presidential campaign just days before her first debate with Donald Trump.


https://www.wsj.com/articles/laptop-may-include-thousands-of-emails-linked-to-hillary-clintons-private-server-1477854957

https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/fbi-in-internal-feud-over-clinton-probe/ar-AAjCtQu
	FBI in Internal Feud Over Hillary Clinton Probe

	New details show that senior law-enforcement officials repeatedly voiced skepticism of the strength of the evidence in a bureau investigation of the Clinton Foundation, sought to condense what was at times a sprawling cross-country effort, and, according to some people familiar with the matter, told agents to limit their pursuit of the case. The probe of the foundation began more than a year ago to determine whether financial crimes or influence peddling occurred related to the charity. 

	Some investigators grew frustrated, viewing FBI leadership as uninterested in probing the charity, these people said. Others involved disagreed sharply, defending FBI bosses and saying Mr. McCabe in particular was caught between an increasingly acrimonious fight for control between the Justice Department and FBI agents pursuing the Clinton Foundation case.

	It isn’t unusual for field agents to favor a more aggressive approach than supervisors and prosecutors think is merited. But the internal debates about the Clinton Foundation show the high stakes when such disagreements occur surrounding someone who is running for president.

	The Wall Street Journal reported last week that Mr. McCabe’s wife, Jill McCabe, received $467,500 in campaign funds in late 2015 from the political-action committee of Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe, a longtime ally of the Clintons and, until he was elected governor in November 2013, a Clinton Foundation board member.

	...other Clinton-related investigations were under way within the FBI, and they have been the subject of internal debate for months, according to people familiar with the matter.

	Early this year, four FBI field offices—New York, Los Angeles, Washington and Little Rock, Ark.—were collecting information about the Clinton Foundation to see if there was evidence of financial crimes or influence-peddling, according to people familiar with the matter.

	...In February, FBI officials made a presentation to the Justice Department, according to these people. By all accounts, the meeting didn’t go well.

	Some said that is because the FBI didn’t present compelling evidence to justify more aggressive pursuit of the Clinton Foundation, and that the career anticorruption prosecutors in the room simply believed it wasn’t a very strong case. Others said that from the start, the Justice Department officials were stern, icy and dismissive of the case.

	“That was one of the weirdest meetings I’ve ever been to,” one participant told others afterward, according to people familiar with the matter.

	Anticorruption prosecutors at the Justice Department told the FBI at the meeting they wouldn’t authorize more aggressive investigative techniques, such as subpoenas, formal witness interviews, or grand-jury activity. But the FBI officials believed they were well within their authority to pursue the leads and methods already under way, these people said.

	...Others, particularly Justice Department anticorruption prosecutors, felt that both probes were weak, based largely on publicly available information, and had found little that would merit expanded investigative authority.

	...In September, agents on the foundation case asked to see the emails contained on nongovernment laptops that had been searched as part of the Clinton email case, but that request was rejected by prosecutors at the Eastern District of New York, in Brooklyn. Those emails were given to the FBI based on grants of partial immunity and limited-use agreements, meaning agents could only use them for the purpose of investigating possible mishandling of classified information.


https://judiciary.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/114-91_22125.pdf
	Mr. MARINO. ...was there additional immunity for Ms. Mills stating that anything on that computer cannot be used against her?

	Mr. COMEY. As I recall it, Congressman, the act-of-production immunity for Ms. Mills was: You give us this computer; we will not use—we, the Justice Department—anything we find on the computer directly against you in connection with investigation or prosecution for mishandling of classified information. I think that is how they defined it.

	Mr. MARINO. But that goes beyond act of production. Doesn’t act of production simply state that I am the agent, I can’t get on the stand and say that belongs to that individual because they simply gave it to me? It sounds like more, additional immunity was given that says: And what is on this we cannot hold against you.

	Mr. COMEY. Well, I think of it as—I still think of it as an act- of-production immunity. From my experience, that is what I would characterize that agreement.

	...Mr. MARINO. ...Why not empanel and investigative grand jury whereby you have reasonable suspicion that a crime may have been committed, and then you have the ability to get warrants, subpoenas, get this information, subpoena witnesses before the grand jury under oath ...wouldn't that have been much simpler and more effective than the way this has gone about? ...

	Mr. COMEY. Yeah. No, it is a reasonable  question. And I don’t want to talk about grand jury in connection with this case or any other case—— 

	...Mr.MARINO. I understand that clearly. Why did you not decide to go to an investigative grand jury? It would have been cleaner, it would have been much simpler, and you would have had more authority to make these witnesses testify—not the target, but the witness testify. That seems the way to go, Director. We have done it thousands of times. This just was too convoluted. 

	Mr .COMEY. Yeah, again, I need to steer clear of talking about grand jury use in a particular matter. In general, in my experience, you can often do things faster with informal agreements, especially when you are interacting with lawyers. In this particular investigation, the investigative team really wanted to get access to the laptops that were used to sort these emails. 

	Mr.MARINO. Okay. When was—— 

	Mr. COMEY. Those are lawyers’ laptops. That is a very complicated thing. I think they were able to navigate it pretty well to get us access. 


https://judiciary.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/114-91_22125.pdf
	Ms. JACKSONLEE. ...I understand that the FBI does not make the final call on immunity agreements. That was the DOJ. You made that clear. ...But did you consult closely with DOJ before these immunity agreements were concluded by giving—by having facts?

	Mr. COMEY. Right. Our job is to tell them what facts we would like to get access to. The prosecutor’s job is figure out how to do that. And so they negotiate—I think there were five limited immunity agreements of different kinds that they negotiated.

	Ms. JACKSONLEE. Did you or anyone at the FBI ever object to these decisions to grant immunity? Did you think they made sense?

	Mr. COMEY. No. It was fairly ordinary stuff.

	Ms. JACKSONLEE. Was the FBI or DOJ handing out immunity agreements like candy?

	Mr. COMEY. That is not how I saw it. I didn’t see it—— 


https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/fbi-in-internal-feud-over-clinton-probe/ar-AAjCtQu
	Some FBI agents were dissatisfied with that answer, and asked for permission to make a similar request to federal prosecutors in Manhattan, according to people familiar with the matter. Mr. McCabe, these people said, told them no and added that they couldn’t “go prosecutor-shopping.”

	Not long after that discussion, FBI agents informed the bureau’s leaders about the Weiner laptop, prompting Mr. Comey’s disclosure to Congress and setting off the furor that promises to consume the final days of a tumultuous campaign.


https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-22/clinton-foundation-said-to-be-breached-by-russian-hackers
	Clinton Foundation Said to Be Breached by Russian Hackers


http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/13/us/politics/13text-clinton.html
	LUGAR: ...President Clinton is deservedly proud of the Clinton Foundation's good work in addressing HIV/AIDS, global poverty, climate change, and other pressing problems.

	But the Clinton Foundation exists as a temptation for any foreign entity or government that believes it could curry favor through a donation. It also sets up potential perception problems with any action taken by the secretary of state in relation to foreign givers or their countries.

	The nature of the secretary of state post makes recusal from specific policy decisions almost impossible, since even localized U.S. foreign policy activities can ripple across countries and continents. Every new foreign donation that is accepted by the foundation comes with the risk it will be connected in the global media to a proximate State Department policy or decision.

	Foreign perceptions are incredibly important to United States foreign policy, and mistaken impressions or suspicions can deeply affect the actions of foreign governments toward the United States. Moreover, we do not want our own government's deliberations distracted by avoidable controversies played out in the media.

	The bottom line is that even well-intentioned foreign donations carry risks for United States foreign policy. The only certain way to eliminate this risk going forward is for the Clinton foundation to forswear new foreign contributions when Senator Clinton becomes secretary of state.

	...CLINTON: ...I can absolutely guarantee you that I will keep a very close look on how this is being implemented. I will certainly do everything in my power to make sure that the good work of the foundation continues without there being any untoward effects on me and my service and be very conscious of any questions that are raised.

	But I think that the way that this has been hammered out is probably as close as we can get to doing something that is so unprecedented that there is no formula for it. And we've tried to do the very best we could.

	LUGAR: Well, my time is concluded. But let me just say that the situation is unprecedented when a first lady and her distinguished husband and a foundation come together with a State Department hearing of this sort.

	I am hopeful that, as we go through the history of this, that people will not say, well, Senator Lugar, Senator Kerry, and others were pressing it. They saw the problems. And we'll get full credit, but that will not be helpful to our foreign policy, to you, to your husband, to the foundation.

	This is why I plea for you, really, to give even more consideration -- it may not be a decision made today because I appreciate the negotiations have been sizeable. And you are a good negotiator and so is your husband. So are those who have worked for you. I admire that. It's a good things for a State Department official and, particularly, the secretary of state.

	But this seems to me to be so important at the outset. This is why I've dwelled upon it, trying your patience and that of the committee, because I think it is very important. And I think you understand that.

	CLINTON: I do. And I respect you so much, Senator. And I can, you know, certainly guarantee to you that I will remain very sensitive to this and I will work with you and the chairman as we go forward.

	LUGAR: Thank you.

	CLINTON: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.


Before she was sworn-in, Clinton was sternly warned of the risks involved in accepting foreign donations to the Clinton Foundation as Secretary of State. To address this, Clinton signed a memorandum of understanding with the Obama Administration promising to disclose foreign donations to the State Department and avoid conflicts of interest or "the appearance of conflicts of interest."

Clinton failed to disclose foreign donations multiple times. There is a pattern of Clinton giving preferential treatment at the State Department to donors to her foundation, "friends" of her Husband, and foreign governments who paid her husband exorbitant speaking fees. Clinton failed to avoid the appearance of conflict of interest. She broke her promise to the Senate, the Obama administration, and the public.

Clinton promised "overwhelming disclosure" for the Clinton Foundation, but if the Clinton Foundation was subject to overwhelming disclosure, it was only because of FOIA requests of Clinton's work-related emails (http://www.judicialwatch.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/Abedin-Complaint-File-Stamped.pdf). Clinton's state department and foundation overlapped in employees, communications, and business, and it has been said it was "hard to tell where the foundation ended and the State Department began."

Because some of the federal records on Clinton's private server gave the appearance of a conflict of interest and a violation of Clinton's agreement with the Obama administration, Clinton had an incentive to conceal these records. Reportedly, the conduct at the Clinton Foundation was enough to open an FBI investigation into the foundation, further adding to the incentive to conceal. In her public statements, Clinton said her foundation went "beyond what the law and the ethics rules call for to address even the appearance of conflict," but it is inconceivable that Clinton did not recognize the emails she wrote as Secretary of State and the business she conducted as director of the Clinton Foundation created the appearance of a conflict of interest.

But, apparently, Comey did not take this into account either when he decided there was insufficient "evidence of intent" to indict Clinton:


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	CHAFFETZ: Was the Clinton Foundation tied into this investigation?

	COMEY: Yeah I’m not going to answer that.


Reportedly, the unusual immunity agreements granted by the Justice Department during the Clinton email investigation hindered the FBI's investigation of the Clinton Foundation. It is unclear why Comey defended these immunity agreements and dodged the question when asked to testify why he didn't instead empanel a grand jury.


Ultimately, even if Comey's intent requirement is to be followed, there is evidence that Clinton had a guilty conscience, especially from her public statements. But Comey says he didn't review Clinton's statements before his recommendation to not indict:


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	WALKER: ...can you help me understand why didn’t it rise to your investigation or someone bringing that to your knowledge as far as saying this is a problem, here she is, again, Secretary Clinton lying under oath specifically about our investigation?

	COMEY: We out of respect for the legislative branch being a separate branch, we do not commence investigations that focus on activities before Congress without Congress asking us...

	...CHAFFETZ: You did not look at testimony that Hillary Clinton gave in the United State Congress, both the House and the Senate.

	...Did you review and look at those transcripts as to the intent of your recommendation.

	COMEY: I’m sure my folks did. I did not.


Comey said his "folks" reviewed her statements, but he didn't meet with all of his agents before his recommendation: 


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	MICA: ...But all of the agents, did they meet with you and then is that the group that said that we all vote to not recommend prosecution?

	COMEY: I did not meet with all of the agents. I’ve met with — I guess I’ve — I’ve met with all of them…


But isn't this irresponsible? It sounds like Comey went off on his own with his recommendation without reviewing all the facts important to the case.

In addition to being trained and experienced in the identification and handling of classified information, Clinton is a trained and experienced lawyer. It looks like she was using the "idiot defense" in her public statements and FBI interview:


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idiot_defense
	The idiot defense is a satirical term for a legal strategy where a defendant claims innocence by virtue of having been ignorant of facts of which the defendant would normally be expected to be aware. Other terms used for this tactic include "dumb CEO defense", "dummy defense", "ostrich defense", "Ken Lay defense", and "Sergeant Schultz defense".

	The term was popularized as a result of a number of high-profile corporate accounting scandal defendants claiming that all wrongdoing was performed by others, without the defendant's knowledge or consent. Attorneys for these defendants claimed that their skill was in valuation and deal-making, and that they lacked the training to recognize fraudulent accounting practices they claimed that they would have needed. However, in many cases the defendants' subordinates testified that the defendants ordered them to falsify the accounts.

	No major instances of the idiot defense being successful in criminal proceedings have been reported in American jurism to date.


When she told the FBI that "(C)" is just marking paragraphs in alphabetical order, she destroyed her own defense by making it obvious she was playing dumb (among other ways). But Comey went along with her defense in his testimony to Congress, even inserting an "intent" requirement that appears to be necessary for her defense to work in the first place. Someone who's trusted with single-handedly making a major decision about Clinton's prosecution shouldn't sound like her defense. On top of that, Comey didn't review  Clinton's public statements or confer with all of his agents before his recommendation not to indict. Comey was extremely careless in making his decision.


Comey's decision shaped the 2016 election in a lot of ways--most of which helped Russia. As far as learning and/or guessing how Russia's active measures worked then and could work in the near future, it's worth looking into.

Maybe the biggest impact was how Comey helped validate Russia and Trump's "the system is rigged" narrative (see: https://www.google.com/search?q=system+rigged+site%3Aallnewspipeline.com+OR+site%3Aantiwar.com+OR+site%3Abeforeitsnews.com+OR+site%3Aconsortiumnews.com+OR+site%3Acounterpunch.org+OR+site%3Aglobalresearch.ca+OR+site%3Ainfowars.com+OR+site%3Alewrockwell.com+OR+site%3Amintpressnews.com+OR+site%3Aopednews.com+OR+site%3Aprisonplanet.com+OR+site%3Aronpaulinstitute.org+OR+site%3Athirdworldtraveler.com+OR+site%3Atruth-out.org+OR+site%3Awashingtonsblog.com+OR+site%3Azerohedge.com).

Comey's July 5th statement made Clinton look guilty (especially to those on the right), with some scratching their heads at what exactly the difference between "extreme carelessness" (as Comey put it) and "gross negligence" is. It created the perception--which some in the media inflamed--that the Justice System was letting Hillary off without a trial:


https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/trumps-system-is-rigged-argument-is-working/
	Apr. 23, 2016 at 10:30 AM
	Trump’s ‘System Is Rigged’ Argument Is Working
	He’s gaining in the polls, and the media is playing along.


http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2016/07/05/gregg-jarrett-fbi-director-calls-clinton-careless-his-recommendations-make-no-sense.html
	Gregg Jarrett: FBI Director calls Clinton ‘careless’. His recommendations make no sense

	It makes no legal sense. I suspect attorneys across America are scratching their heads.           
	James Comey, Director of the FBI, declared Tuesday that Hillary Clinton was “extremely careless” in her handling of very sensitive and highly classified information on her unauthorized and unsecured email server while serving as Secretary of State.

	Those words, “extremely careless” mean something important in the law.  Consider the relevant federal criminal statute which reads: 

		“Whoever, being entrusted with… any document relating to the national defense… through gross negligence permits the same to be removed from its proper place of custody… shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both.”  (18 U.S.C., section 793-f) 

	The key phrase is “gross negligence”. What does it mean?  Every lawyer and judge in America knows its meaning. It is defined in standard jury instructions and just about every legal treatise that exists.

	It means extremely careless. 

	Black’s Law Dictionary is the legal bible upon which attorneys rely. Check it out. You’ll find that gross negligence is described and defined as extreme carelessness.  At least, my edition does.

	...Since Comey, by his own words, all but declared that Clinton broke a criminal law, how could he then say he would not recommend criminal prosecution? Again, it makes no sense. 

	Comey is a former U.S. Attorney. Yet, he exhibited an astonishing ignorance of the law. He laid out a case of gross negligence constituting a crime, defined it with the words “extremely careless” and then promptly proceeded to ignore the law. 


http://insider.foxnews.com/2016/07/05/giuliani-comey-made-special-exception-clintons
 	'So Discouraging': Giuliani Says Comey Made 'Special Exception for the Clintons' 


http://www.cnn.com/2016/07/05/politics/election-2016-donald-trump-hillary-clinton-fbi/index.html
	Trump: FBI decision on Clinton proves 'our system is totally rigged'

	Donald Trump on Tuesday night repeatedly hammered his message that there is a "rigged system" at work, pointing specifically to the FBI decision to not recommend criminal charges against Hillary Clinton for her use of email while serving as secretary of state.

	Trump seized on the FBI's decision as he addressed the crowd of fervent supporters in this potential battleground state, calling it the "best evidence ever that we've seen that our system is totally rigged."

	He accused Clinton, the presumptive Democratic nominee, of bribing the U.S. attorney general -- offering little to back up the dramatic accusation. And he called the FBI's decision, announced earlier Tuesday by the agency's director James Comey, a "tragedy."

	"Everybody thought based on what was being said she was guilty. She was guilty. And it turned out that we're not going to press charges. It's really amazing," Trump said as his crowd of more than 2,200, according to the theater, erupted in a chorus of boos.

	"We have a rigged system, folks," he added.


http://www.foxnews.com/transcript/2016/10/26/bill-oreilly-is-our-political-system-rigged.html
	Bill O'Reilly: Is our political system rigged? 

	...The appearance of corruption is staggering. Talking Points is not saying there is corruption. But the optics are awful and FBI Director James Comey had to know that. If you combine the McCabe stuff, we just told you about, with Comey not calling for a grand jury and basically giving Secretary Clinton every benefit of every doubt, again, you have the appearance of impropriety. So it's no surprise. Many Americans, including Mr. Trump, believe the system is rigged. Did I mention Attorney General Loretta Lynch meeting with Bill Clinton during the investigation?

	I mean, come on. Again, the vote cannot be possibly rigged two weeks from tonight. And Mr. Trump should accept whatever happens at that vote, unless there is compelling evidence of corruption. Undermining our electoral system is not a patriotic thing. But overall, if you don't think the federal political and justice system has severe problems, you are living in the Land of Oz. And that's "The Memo".


http://www.cnbc.com/2016/10/22/trump-gains-on-clinton-poll-shows-rigged-message-resonates.html
	Trump gains on Clinton, poll shows 'rigged' message resonates

	...The Reuters/Ipsos data showed only half of Republicans would accept Clinton as their president, and nearly 70 percent of them said a Clinton victory would be because of illegal voting or vote rigging.

	Trump's crowd chanted "Lock her up!" at a rally in Johnstown, Pennsylvania after he declared Clinton a "corrupt globalist," a reference to campaign documents released by WikiLeaks in which Clinton was quoted advocating free trade and open borders.

	After the chant went around the room for several seconds, Trump responded, "Don't worry, that whole thing will be looked into." 


http://www.bbc.com/news/election-us-2016-36860740
	US election: Do 'lock her up' chants mark a new low?

	Many of the speakers have focused more on the faults of Hillary Clinton than the virtues of Donald Trump.

	...Much of the criticism from the stage, from Mr Christie and others, was about Mrs Clinton's use of a private email account while she was serving as secretary of state.

	An FBI investigation said she was "extremely careless" but found her actions didn't warrant criminal prosecution. 


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/majority-disapproves-decision-charge-clinton-emails-poll/story?id=40445344
 	A majority of Americans disapprove of the FBI's recommendation not to charge Hillary Clinton with a crime over her handling of email while secretary of state, and a similar number in a new ABC News/Washington Post poll say the issue leaves them worried about how she would handle her responsibilities as president if elected. 

	...Overall, 56 percent disapprove of FBI Director James Comey's recommendation not to charge Clinton, while just 35 percent approve. Similarly, 57 percent say the incident makes them worried about how Clinton might act as president if she is elected, with most very worried about it. 


http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/290892-trump-says-second-amendment-folks-could-stop-clinton
	Trump: 'Second Amendment people' could stop Clinton

	...Trump was discussing the possibility that Clinton, the Democratic nominee, would be able to appoint liberal justices to the Supreme Court if she wins the race for the White House.

	He then said that there was nothing that could be done in that scenario, before mentioning “Second Amendment folks.”

	“Hillary wants to abolish, essentially abolish the Second Amendment,” Trump said to boos from the crowd.

	“By the way, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do folks,” he then added.

	“Though the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know.”


http://www.cnn.com/2016/10/26/politics/joe-walsh-donald-trump-protest-tweet/index.html
	Ex-congressman: 'If Trump loses, I'm grabbing my musket'

	...Walsh, who was elected with support from the tea party movement, is now a conservative talk radio host, tweeted Wednesday: "On November 8th, I'm voting for Trump. On November 9th, if Trump loses, I'm grabbing my musket. You in?"


http://fortune.com/2016/07/15/hillary-clinton-email-scandal-poll/
	Hillary Clinton Survived Her Email Scandal, But Not Unscathed, New Poll Shows

	Hillary Clinton enters the summer damaged by perceptions that she violated the law by using a private email system while serving as secretary of state, a new Associated Press-GfK poll finds.

	More than half of Americans think the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee broke the law by using a private email account and server at the State Department and nearly 4 in 10 think she did so intentionally, according to the poll.

	..."She's innocent until proven guilty, but to me the FBI director called her guilty and then gave her a pass card," said James Thompson, a 57-year-old Republican from Colchester, Connecticut. "If that was anyone else in this world, they would have been gone. They would have been down the river. They would have been in jail."


http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/jul/5/hillary-clinton-emails-only-american-people-can-fi/
	Only the American people can fix this now

	Obama, FBI Director James Comey let Hillary off the hook

	So there you have it.  We now know the results of the FBI investigation into Hillary Clinton’s email practices while secretary of State: No charges even though the FBI director himself said she was extremely negligent with classified information, including special compartmental access information, and there is a high likelihood foreign entities accessed this data.  

	...If I had negligently taken TS SCI information out of secure environment and opened it up to possibility of theft by a foreign adversary, I can guarantee you I would have been thrown in jail for years.  
	The Obama administration simply let Hillary Clinton off the hook for criminal behavior.  They did this because they are criminal themselves, through and through.  

	Today I realized that the America I knew is no more.  It is gone. It has been stolen, corrupted by the largest organized crime syndicate ever known to man, the Democratic Party.  

	...Now we have a criminal gang openly flouting the legal system, backed by a corrupt, cheerleading media.  An elite oligarchy is in charge, that is above the law and has destroyed trust in our rule of law.  We are no better than Vladimir Putin’s Russia, where this type of thing is commonplace, where freedom and democracy are only a sham, to be trotted out for pictures.  This is no less threatening than the South seceding from the Union.  This is sedition.

	This cannot stand.  

	In the late 18th century, we fought a revolution over much worse—a tax on tea, taxation without representation.  This is no longer about partisan politics.  This is no longer about conservatism.  This is about what is right and wrong.  This is about freedom.  This is about the entire notion of America itself.   

	America is dying. 

	...If Hillary Clinton is elected president, we will no longer have a country.  We will have a totalitarian oligarchy.

	This can no longer be fixed by the system.  This can only be fixed by the American people themselves.  We fought a revolution for less.  


http://www.rawstory.com/2016/09/georgia-voter-predicts-civil-war-if-clinton-wins-patriots-are-going-to-overthrow-the-government/
	Georgia voter predicts civil war if Clinton wins: ‘Patriots are going to overthrow the government’


http://www.nbcnews.com/card/pence-revolution-rally-goer-dont-say-n664776
	 Mike Pence had to talk down a supporter at an Iowa town hall Tuesday suggesting a "revolution" if Hillary Clinton becomes president.

	The woman, who identified herself as Rhonda, told the GOP vice presidential nominee that she was worried because "our kids' futures depend on this election."

	"I will tell you just for me — and I don't want this to happen — but I will tell you for me, personally, if Hillary Clinton gets in ... I'm ready for a revolution because we can't have her in," she said in an emotional moment.

	Pence, who remains steadfast to running mate Donald Trump, interjected: "Yeah, you don't want — don't say that." 


http://www.newsmax.com/Politics/presidential-election-election-hillary-clinton-james-comey/2016/11/06/id/757336/
	Trump on FBI Probe: Proves System 'Rigged'

	Donald Trump on Sunday criticized James Comey for his announcement that the FBI had not changed its conclusion regarding her emails, telling a crowd in Michigan that it was hard to believe the agency could review "650,000 new emails in eight days."

	"Right now, she is being protected by a rigged system. It's a totally rigged system. I've been saying it for a long time," said Trump.



The core of Trump's campaign message was of populist "outsider" campaigning against a corrupt, "rigged system." The decision not to indict helped validate this message for some, as well as galvanize Trump's anti-establishment base.

For Russia, the appearance of a rigged justice system might have helped drive public anger and distrust toward the U.S. Government and media:


http://www.gallup.com/poll/193832/americans-satisfaction-drops-sharply.aspx
	July 21, 2016
	Americans' Satisfaction With U.S. Drops Sharply

	Americans' satisfaction with the way things are going in the U.S. dropped 12 percentage points in the past month, amid high-profile police killings of black men and mass shootings of police. Currently, 17% of Americans are satisfied with the state of affairs in the U.S.


http://www.gallup.com/poll/195542/americans-trust-mass-media-sinks-new-low.aspx
	September 14, 2016
	Americans' Trust in Mass Media Sinks to New Low

	Americans' trust and confidence in the mass media "to report the news fully, accurately and fairly" has dropped to its lowest level in Gallup polling history, with 32% saying they have a great deal or fair amount of trust in the media. This is down eight percentage points from last year.


Presumably this is something Russia wants in general--the more untrustworthy the U.S. "establishment," the easier it is for Russian propaganda to gain Americans' trust instead.

Comey's decision--and the email scandal overall--also helped Russia make the 2016 election angry and divisive. As a general rule, corrupt politicians like Clinton and Trump are more divisive--political polarization has a way of making partisans hyper-aware of flaws in the leaders of the opposing party, but blind to the flaws in members of their own:


http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/09/how-politics-breaks-our-brains-and-how-we-can-put-them-back-together/453315/
	How Politics Breaks Our Brains, and How We Can Put Them Back Together

	We're partisans by nature, and once we pick a side we see the world in red or blue.

	...The NYU team is trying to show that our brains are hardwired for partisanship and how that skews our perceptions in public life. Research at NYU and elsewhere is underscoring just how blind the "us-versus-them" mind-set can make people when they try to process new political information. Once this partisanship mentality kicks in, the brain almost automatically pre-filters facts—even noncontroversial ones—that offend our political sensibilities.

	"Once you trip this wire, this trigger, this cue, that you are a part of 'us-versus-them,' it's almost like the whole brain becomes re-coordinated in how it views people," says Jay Van Bavel, the leader of NYU's Social Perception and Evaluation Lab.

	Our tendency toward partisanship is likely the result of evolution—forming groups is how prehistoric humans survived. That's helpful when trying to master an unforgiving environment with Stone Age technology. It's less so when trying to foster a functional democracy.

	...But to create the base "us and them" structure, none of that is needed. The brain is so hardwired to build such groups that Van Bavel says he can turn anyone on the street into a partisan. "I can do it in five minutes with a random stranger," he says. All it takes is a coin flip.

	"Somebody comes into your lab and you tell them, 'You're part of the blue team,' " he explains. "The next person who comes in, you flip a coin, let's say it comes up the other way. And you say, 'You're on the red team.' "

	That's it. The teammates never have to meet. Or interact. There doesn't need to be anything at stake. But within minutes, these insta-partisans like their teammates better than they like the other guys. And it shows when Van Bavel puts his subjects through his MRI dollhouse.

	Red-team members are more likely to see humans when they're told they're looking at fellow red-team faces. Blue-team members respond the same way. Other tests reveal that red-team members remember red-team faces more accurately, and if Van Bavel asks subjects to allocate money, red-team members will pay out more to their own. Team members also have less sympathy for those on the other side, and even experience pleasure while reading about their pain.

	...BUT WHEN IT COMES to American politics, how troubled should we be by any of these findings? America's partisan divide is as old as America's democracy. And it's neither feasible nor desirable to hope for a national consensus on every issue. Even if we all worked from the same set of facts, and even if we all understood those facts perfectly, differences of opinion would—and should—remain. Those opinions are not the problem. The trouble is when we're so blinded by our partisanship that it overrides reason—and research suggests that is happening all the time.

	With just a hint of partisan priming, an Arizona State University researcher was able to instantly blind Democrats to a noncontroversial fact, leading them immediately to fail to solve the easiest of math problems. In the 2010 experiment, political scientist Mark Ramirez asked subjects two similar questions. The control group saw this question: "Would you say that compared to 2008, the level of unemployment in this country has gotten better, stayed the same, or gotten worse?" A separate group saw this one: "Would you say that the level of unemployment in this country has gotten better, stayed the same, or gotten worse since Barack Obama was elected President?"

	The key difference between the two: the first mentions the time period for assessing unemployment, while the second frames the issue around President Obama. When asked the first question, Democrats and Republicans responded similarly, with most saying unemployment had remained about the same. But among subjects who got the second question, opinions shifted along partisan lines: Around 60 percent of Democrats said unemployment had gotten better or somewhat better, and about 75 percent of Republicans said the opposite.

	In fact, the unemployment rate increased between Obama's election and Ramirez's study. One can argue about whether this is a fair frame for evaluating this or any president's economic record, but from a raw-numbers perspective, the rise in the unemployment rate between 2008 and 2010 is indisputable.

	But even giving Democrats that information did not increase the accuracy of their responses. Ramirez's study asked some participants the following question: "The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics shows unemployment has increased by 4.6 percent since 2008. Would you say that the level of unemployment in this country has gotten better, stayed the same, or gotten worse since Barack Obama was elected President?"

	Clearly, the answer is in the sentence that immediately precedes the question. But the mention of Obama launched a partisan mental process that led many astray: Nearly 60 percent of Democrats said unemployment had lessened since Obama's election.

	Essentially, once Democrats focused on Obama, most of them largely ignored the facts. (About 80 percent of Republicans got the answer right when it was spoon-fed to them, but Republicans tempted to cry victory should be cautioned that researchers have found them to be similarly off base in assessing the economy when one of their own is in the Oval Office.)


(Also, if you read any of the hundreds of articles I'm making you read, read this one--it explains a lot.)


From what I can tell, the divisiveness of corrupt (or dishonest, evil) political leaders rests on two phenomena in the partisan psyche:

	1. Partisans have a hard time recognizing flaws in their own leaders
	2. Partisans impugn flaws of opposing leaders on the opposing party


This manifests especially during elections: 


https://pcl.stanford.edu/research/2012/iyengar-poq-affect-not-ideology.pdf
	Using data from a variety of sources, we demonstrate that both republicans and democrats increasingly dislike, even loathe, their opponents. We also find that partisan affect is inconsistently (and perhaps arti-factually) founded in policy attitudes. The more plausible account lies in the nature of political campaigns; exposure to messages attacking the out-group reinforces partisans’ biased views of their opponents.

	...Policy-based division is but one way of defining partisan polarization. An alternative, and in our view, more diagnostic, indicator of mass polarization is the extent to which partisans view each other as a disliked out-group. The definitional test of social identity (Tajfel 1970; Tajfel and Turner 1979) requires not only positive sentiment for one’s own group, but also negative sentiment toward those identifying with opposing groups. So, to the extent that party identification represents a meaningful group affiliation, the more appropriate test of polarization is affective, not ideological, identity.

	Affect based on partisan identity may reflect some combination of ideological disagreements and group-centric impulses. Partisans may attribute the more extreme policy positions of party elites and activists to party supporters, producing “principled” dislike. We present evidence that partisan affect is inconsistently related to policy preferences and that the relationship between partisan affect and policy attitudes hasn’t notably strengthened over time. The more plausible explanation, in our view, is that the mere act of identifying with a political party is sufficient to trigger negative evaluations of the opposition, and exposure to prolonged media-based campaigns only reinforces these predispositions. We present evidence showing that partisans’ feelings for their opponents become more negative following exposure to presidential campaigns.

	Our principal goal is to document the extent of affective polarization. We show that democrats and republicans not only increasingly dislike the opposing party, but also impute negative traits to the rank-and-file of the out-party. We further demonstrate that affective polarization has permeated judgments about interpersonal relations, exceeds polarization based on other prominent social cleavages, and that levels of partisan affect are significantly higher in America, compared to the United Kingdom. Finally, we present evidence suggesting that exposure to political campaigns is a potential contributory factor. Overall, the evidence is unequivocal: in terms of affect, Americans are polarized along party lines.

	...Between 1960 and 2008, stereotyping of partisan supporters and opponents increased exponentially. Among the Americans, in-party bias—the tendency to view one’s party more favorably than the opposition—climbed from 0.47 to 2.86!

	...In sum, the evidence presented above—the non-effects of sorting on the level of affective polarization, and the moderate to weak effects of policy preferences on net partisan affect—is at odds with the view that partisan affect is driven primarily by ideological affinity.

	...For parties to be seen in ideological terms would require an awareness of their policy stances, yet most Americans have difficulty correctly locating parties on issue scales


The general idea is: a partisan will see how awful the opposing party's candidate is and think "How can they support someone so awful? They must all be nuts!" At the same time, a partisan sees attacks on his candidate by the opposing party as disingenuous or hypocritical, making them easier to dismiss. Attacks by an out-party can actually make partisans like their candidate even more:


http://faculty2.ucmerced.edu/snicholson/Polarizing_Cues.pdf
	Lastly, I compare the effects of party labels (e.g., the Democratic Party) to party leaders (e.g., Barack Obama). The results indicate that partisans change their opinion to hold the opposite opinion of an out-party leader but that party labels, by themselves, largely do not have this effect. Based on these results, political figures, not party labels, appear to cause opinion polarization.


The effect is that corrupt candidates--and the negative campaigns that go with them--drastically increase the animosity (or "affective polarization" as Iyengar et. al. put it) between political parties.

There is some evidence that Russian propagandists tried to use the email scandal to increase this effect during the 2016 election:


http://www.newsweek.com/squalid-case-against-hillary-and-her-emails-492017
	The Squalid Case Against Hillary and Her Emails
	By John Dean 

	Endless efforts by congressional Republicans to foil or foul up Hillary Clinton’s run for the presidency have hit a new low.

	The members of Congress involved cannot be sued for defamation, since they are protected by the “Speech and Debate Clause” of the Constitution. But the fact that they are not merely smearing the former secretary of state but are trying to send her to jail on phony charges of perjury and lying to Congress is beyond the pale of dirty politics.

http://www.newsmax.com/Politics/john-dean-trump-inexperience-shows-needs/2017/05/15/id/790294/
	National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster's denial didn't really hit all the points of what Monday's Washington Post story alleged, Dean noted, sparking speculation from critics that it was essentially a non-denial denial.

	"It is conspicuous," he said. "It's very obvious they are not banging away at the story itself. They are playing around it. I don't know if they think this will get confused in translation or what's going to happen. It's not a very strong defense even."


http://www.newsweek.com/hillary-emails-republicans-revel-another-fake-scandal-478575
	Hillary Clinton’s Emails: Republicans Revel in Another Fake Scandal
	By Neil H. Buchanan

	...Comey has already gone outside of his portfolio and given Republicans some talking points that they will surely enjoy repeating. Even though the bottom line of his comments is, "There are a bunch of things here that bother me, but this was not a close call," Comey did give Republicans some political sustenance.  

	For Republicans, however, that is never enough.  They will overplay this, as they always do.

http://www.dorfonlaw.org/2017/05/time-for-careful-lying-by-team-trump.html
	 Time for Careful Lying by Team Trump
	by Neil H. Buchanan

	...after The Washington Post's blockbuster May 15 scoop that Trump had revealed highly classified information to two top officials of the Russian government, the Administration sent out Trump's national security advisor, H.R. McMaster, to do some careful lying.


http://www.motherjones.com/kevin-drum/2016/12/timid-liberals-flinching-hillary-clintons-email-server/
	Timid Liberals Blew the Election by Flinching at Hillary Clinton’s Email Server

	Kevin Drum

	So here’s what we’ve got. Clinton used a private server for her unclassified emails. However, that doesn’t provide any reason to think she was any more careless about discussing classified information than any other secretary of state. Nevertheless, Republicans used the excuse of the Benghazi investigation to demand an inspector general’s audit of her emails. The intelligence community, naturally, concluded that Clinton’s archives contained thousands of discussions of classified programs. They would most likely conclude the same thing if they audited the email account of any ranking State Department official. It’s just a fact of life that State and CIA disagree about this stuff.

http://washingtonmonthly.com/2005/09/18/final-entry/
	Final entry

	by Leon Fuerth

	This is my final post here. Many thanks to Kevin Drum 


http://www.newsmax.com/Politics/rush-limbaugh-hillary-clinton-security-risk/2016/06/28/id/736151/
	Rush: Hillary a National Security Risk and Dem Voters Don't Care

	The presumptive Democratic presidential nominee is a national security risk, and half of the country doesn't care, conservative radio talk show host Rush Limbaugh said on Tuesday.


http://www.breitbart.com/2016-presidential-race/2016/07/25/democrats-suddenly-very-concerned-about-email-hacking/
	Democrats Suddenly Very Concerned About Email Hacking

	After spending a year downplaying the risk of Hillary Clinton’s highly vulnerable email server getting hacked — and exposing the classified documents it wasn’t supposed to contain — to foreign intelligence services, Democrats are suddenly very concerned about email hacking. That’s because they desperately need to discredit the devastating leak of DNC emails as a Russian dirty trick to rig the U.S. election.


And spreading "disunity" and "dispute" and "divide and conquer" strategies are something the Okhrana is known for:


https://books.google.com/books?id=h3By77UU4nIC&pg=PA1&source=gbs_toc_r&cad=3#v=onepage&q&f=false
	The Okhrana developed the tradition of using not just informers (osvedomiteli), but also active agents (predateli or 'traitors') within opposition groups. Georgii Sudeikin, the head of the Special Section of the Police Department in the 1880s (himself assassinated in 1883), defined the role of Russian agents extremely broadly. As well as collecting information, they should 'generate suspicion and demoralization, thereby greatly retarding possible revolutionary activity', attempt the 'cultivation of quarrels and clashes amongst the revolutionary groups, the spreading of false rumours to intimidate the revolutionaries and instill a fear of betrayal and espionage


http://uselessdissident.blogspot.com/2008/12/love-letter-to-america-part-two.html
	500 years before Christ, the Chinese military strategist Sun Tzu formulated the principle of subversion this way:

    1. Cover with ridicule all of the valid traditions in your opponent's country.
    2. Implicate their leaders in criminal affairs and turn them over to the scorn of their populace at the right time;
    3. Disrupt the work of their government by every means;
    4. Do not shun the aid of the lowest and most despicable individuals of your enemy's country.
    5. Spread disunity and dispute among the citizens.
    6. Turn the young against the old.
    7. Be generous with promises and rewards to collaborators and accomplices.

	...these “rules” are almost a literal interpretation of those “theories and practices” which I learned from my KGB superiors and colleagues within the 'Novosti' Press Agency.

(Supposedly Sun Tzu is required reading for the KGB, if you can find the source for that)


https://books.google.com/books?id=h3By77UU4nIC&pg=PA151
	'Active measures' (aktivnye meropriiatia) against any opposition or would-be opposition are a key part of the new governing formula. Over and above the use of black PR and kompromat (see pages 70-1), or the cruder types of administration resources (legal deregistration, etc.), active measures proper involves the deployment of virtual objects or events created or staged by political technologists to weaken the opposition.

	...political technologists can seek to alter the entire dynamic of the political system to work against the opposition, most often via artificial polarisation or so-called 'strategies of tension'.

	...Marat Gelman is right to say that many political tactics characteristic of the post-Soviet states are as old as the hills. The most obvious active measure is the traditional game of divide and rule.


https://cepa.ecms.pl/files/?id_plik=2715
	If there is one common thread in the Kremlin’s many narratives it is the use of conspiratorial discourse and a strategic use of disinformation to trash the information space, break trust, increase polarization and undermine the public space for democratic debate


If dividing the country in the 2016 election was Russia's goal, it worked. It's often missed that the 2016 election itself was a kind of psychological warfare against the American public:


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/onpolitics/2016/08/31/poll-clinton-trump-most-unfavorable-candidates-ever/89644296/
	Poll: Clinton, Trump most unfavorable candidates ever

	Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton are the two most unpopular presidential candidates in more than 30 years of ABC News/Washington Post polling.


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/05/poll-hillary-clinton-trump-voters-dislike-223504
	Poll: 6 in 10 dislike or hate Trump and Clinton


https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2016/11/trump-election-foreign-policy/505934/
	Thomas Wright: Firstly, I’m not saying that Trump is equivalent to Nazis in Germany—to their rise. But since those elections, I think there’s never been an election where so much is riding on how a major power would behave in the world. What’s unique about this election is that Trump has a very, very different notion of American foreign policy and [America’s] global role, and would dramatically change U.S. foreign policy if he was elected. Since the world is essentially organized around American power and American intentions, that would have an enormously disruptive effect...

	...To some degree it’s about his views on authoritarianism. But also his first view reinforces his third view: He’s already of the view that the U.S. shouldn’t really be in NATO or in Europe, helping Europe defend itself from Russia. 

	...We underestimate just how much he’s committed to this. He’s been voluntarily speaking about this for three decades. Everyone accuses him of not studying, and that is true. But in this very narrow way, when he says he listens to himself [for foreign-policy advice]...

	Friedman: Do you think the president of the United States has the power to undo that order single-handedly? ...

	Wright: I think the answer, unfortunately, is yes

	...what would probably happen is that the world would become much more dangerous in terms of other countries coming close to conflict with each other

	...I [also] think the global economy would take a huge dive. There would probably be a very severe recession because the U.S. would not be guaranteeing the openness of the global economy. Trump’s position basically is: For the U.S. economy to do well, other countries must do worse.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/07/29/clinton-and-trump-accept-their-nominations-by-telling-you-what-you-should-vote-against/
	Welcome to the next, most negative presidential election of our lives

	Hillary Clinton is the first female nominee of a major American political party, and she would love for you to vote for the first female president.

	But she's okay if you just want to vote against Donald Trump.


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/16/magazine/hillary-clinton-campaign-final-weeks.html
	Clinton told me. “I’m trying to run a campaign that presents an alternative case.” It’s telling that a candidate with the name recognition, résumé and baggage of Hillary Clinton is nonetheless left to present her campaign as an “alternative case.”

	...As I was leaving our interview, she smiled, looked me in the eyes and left me with a casual reminder. “As I’ve told people,” she said, “I’m the last thing standing between you and the apocalypse.”


https://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2016-07-01/13-percent-of-people-prefer-a-giant-meteor-crashing-to-earth-over-a-trump-or-clinton-presidency
	13 Percent of People Would Rather Have a Meteor Hit Earth Than Elect Trump or Clinton

	How much do some people hate the idea of a President Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump?

	Apparently enough that they'd rather die in an apocalyptic event than see it become a reality.

	According to the latest survey by the left-leaning Public Policy Polling, 13 percent of people would rather have a giant meteor hit Earth than elect Clinton or Trump.

	The exact question: "If the choices for President were Democrat Hillary Clinton, Republican Donald Trump, and a Giant Meteor hitting the earth which would you choose?"

	About 43 percent opted for Clinton, 38 percent for Trump, 13 percent for the giant meteor, and 7 percent were unsure.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/full-transcript-abcs-david-muir-interviews-hillary-clinton/story?id=33607656
	DAVID MUIR: Here we sit, five months into your campaign and there are some eye-opening poll numbers out there, and I'm sure you're aware of them, when it comes to how Americans see you. Our ABC poll, Gallup, Quinnipiac showing your favorability numbers taking a sharp dive.

	In one poll, the lowest ever. And when voters were asked, "What is the first word that comes to mind when you think of Hillary Clinton?" Words like liar, dishonest, untrustworthy were at the top of the list. Does this tell you that your original explanation about the private server, that you did it to carry one phone out of convenience, that this didn't sit well with the American people?

	HILLARY CLINTON: Well, David, obviously, I don't like hearing that...

	DAVID MUIR: ...Americans have watched you as First Lady, they watched you run for Senate, they watched you run for president the first time. You served as Secretary of State. And now you're running for president a second time. And I, I wanna know in your most private of moments, is there ever an instance when you ask yourself, "Why am I doing this again?"

	HILLARY CLINTON: ...young mother stands up with her four-and-a-half-month old baby in her arms

	...issues that I have fought for my entire adult life

	...people have told me all my life about the difficulties they encounter just trying to raise a family. Just trying to make it in America again. So it's hard but--


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-meteor-idUSKCN12I20S
	Some 53 percent of the 1,247 people aged 18 to 35 said they would prefer to see a meteor destroy the world than have Republican New York real estate developer Trump in the Oval Office, with some 34 percent preferring planetary annihilation to seeing the Democratic former Secretary of State win.

	Some 39 percent said they would prefer that U.S. President Barack Obama declare himself president for life than hand over power to Clinton or Trump, with 26 percent saying the nation would do better to select its next leader in a random lottery.

	Some 23 percent, nearly one in four, preferred the giant meteor outcome to either Trump or Clinton.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/full-transcript-abcs-david-muir-interviews-hillary-clinton/story?id=33607656
	DAVID MUIR: So you do wake-up--

	HILLARY CLINTON: --it's absolutely worth it.

	DAVID MUIR: --you wake-up like the rest of us every once in a while and think--

	HILLARY CLINTON: Yeah, it's hard.

	DAVID MUIR: --"Am I really doing this again?"

	HILLARY CLINTON: Well, yeah, of course. You know, I, I never, you know, I...


https://pcl.stanford.edu/research/2012/iyengar-poq-affect-not-ideology.pdf
	...presidential campaigns have since become more antagonistic and harder to ignore.

	...On Fox news and, more recently, MSNBC, partisans encounter news and commentary on the campaign that only confirms their stereotypes of the out-group. 

	...our analyses suggest that greater levels of negativity in advertising campaigns and general exposure to political campaigns both contribute to higher levels of affective polarization. Campaigns reinforce voters’ sense of partisan identity and confirm stereotypical beliefs about supporters and opponents 


https://newrepublic.com/article/135148/trump-made-america-racist-republicans-ok-that
	Trump Has Made America More Racist. Republicans Are OK With That.

	...Trump has already awakened and sanctioned a kind of latent social disorder among his supporters, many of whom harbored racist sentiments silently or privately


http://time.com/4486502/hillary-clinton-basket-of-deplorables-transcript/
	[HILL-A-RY chants]

	I know there are only 60 days left to make our case -- and don't get complacent, don't see the latest outrageous, offensive, inappropriate comment and think well he's done this time. We are living in a volatile political environment. You know, to just be grossly generalistic, you could put half of Trump's supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables. Right?

	[Laughter/applause]

	The racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamaphobic -- you name it.


http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2016/08/01/the-emerging-trumpian-majority/
	The Emerging Trumpian Majority

	Populists vs. Elitists

	...Meanwhile, under Hillary Clinton, the Democrats are now the elitist establishment party.

	...For their part, the Democrats haven’t changed much.  The big change is that they are trying to hide their true selves, and they are using big money to help them do the hiding.

	However, if we take a close look, we can see that the Democratic Party is as devoted to its pet causes as ever, including quotas of all kinds and fawning treatment for street radicalism.

	...So the Democrats, being bought and paid for, can’t help but appear smug and oblivious.


http://thefederalist.com/2016/10/31/liberals-dont-care-about-the-health-of-democracy-they-care-about-hillary/
	 Democrats Don’t Care About The Health Of Democracy, They Care About Hillary

	When liberals claim Comey is endangering democracy, they mean he’s endangering Hillary -- which to them is the same thing. 


http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/article/america-in-2016-partisan-fearful-and-angry/
	America in 2016: Partisan, Fearful and Angry

	As Republicans and Democrats begin gathering this week for their national conventions, the partisan divide between both parties is the widest it’s been in at least a quarter century.

	...But voters aren’t just frustrated with members of the opposing side. They’re also fearful of them. More than half of Democrats say the GOP makes them “afraid,” while 49 percent of Republicans say the same about Democrats. Nearly half of all Republicans say Democrats make them feel angry, and vice versa.

	In many cases, the study notes, “negative feelings about the opposing party are as powerful — and in many cases more powerful — as are positive feelings about one’s own party.”


http://www.economist.com/news/leaders/21702188-donald-trumps-nomination-cleveland-will-put-thriving-country-risk-great
	The dividing of America

	...This nation is going to hell


http://www.businessinsider.com/november-new-yorker-cover-captures-americas-election-despair-2016-11
	The cover of The New Yorker's November 14th issue sums up how a lot of Americans will likely feel after Tuesday's election: anguish.

	The cover depicts a New York City subway rider reading a newspaper splashed with the headlines, 'Oh, sweet Jesus please god, no," "Anything but that," and, "Come on."

	...Time Magazine's latest cover shows both candidates smiling and holding a sign reading, "The end is near."


http://www.apa.org/news/press/releases/2016/10/presidential-election-stress.aspx
	APA Survey Reveals 2016 Presidential Election Source of Significant Stress for More Than Half of Americans

	...APA offers the following tips to help people manage their stress related to the election:

	- If the 24-hour news cycle of claims and counterclaims from the candidates is causing you stress, limit your media consumption. Read just enough to stay informed. Turn off the newsfeed or take a digital break. Take some time for yourself, go for a walk, or spend time with friends and family doing things that you enjoy.

	- Avoid getting into discussions about the election if you think they have the potential to escalate to conflict. Be cognizant of the frequency with which you’re discussing the election with friends, family members or coworkers.


https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-11-04/this-election-will-end-the-mental-damage-may-not
	This Election Will End. The Mental Damage May Not

	...The “election cycle has unleashed negativity and somehow given license to be mean and hateful. It has left deep scars on our society”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/dr-gridlock/wp/2017/02/12/a-united-pilot-ranted-about-trump-clinton-and-divorce-her-passengers-fled/
	Dozens of passengers fled a plane and police removed their United Airlines pilot after she gave a long, bizarre speech before takeoff on Saturday.

	...The pilot touched on recent politics.


http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2017/02/11/emotional-pilot-removed-from-sfo-bound-flight-after-bizarre-rant/
	“She started off by saying that she had not voted for either Trump or Clinton because they’re a bunch of liars,” said passenger Noel Portugal. “That’s an odd way to start of the welcome to your flight. It really sort of went downhill from there and didn’t make a lot of sense to any of us.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/dr-gridlock/wp/2017/02/12/a-united-pilot-ranted-about-trump-clinton-and-divorce-her-passengers-fled/
	“She’s like ‘I don’t care if you voted for Trump or Clinton. They’re both [expletive],” Reiss wrote.

	When she changed the subject to the plane’s imminent takeoff, Reiss began to shake, and another passenger began videotaping the drama.

	“So I’ll stop, and we’ll fly the airplane,” the pilot said in the video, which has since been removed from YouTube. “Don’t worry. I’m going to let my co-pilot fly it. He’s a man.”

	...He heard one flier yell “Stop!” at the pilot. Others were crying as they streamed back to the terminal.

	...“People were pleading … ‘Please call security,'”

	...Before he re-boarded, Reiss said, he watched police walk the pilot back through the airport.

	The pilot apologized and hugged him before they parted, he said.

	She offered to write a book with him.

	It looked to him as if she’d been crying, too.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/full-transcript-abcs-david-muir-interviews-hillary-clinton/story?id=33607656
	DAVID MUIR: Are you having fun?

	HILLARY CLINTON: I am. It's hard but it's fun. Most of the things that are hard in life are fun. And, you know, one of my great favorite lines from A League of Their Own when Tom Hanks, playing the broken down drunken coach, you know, confronts you know, the player that, you know...


Apparently, the psychological warfare that is the 2016 election is powerful enough to bring down airplanes.

Why would the Russians want this, besides to make us miserable? One likely reason is to make the Government more dysfunctional (e.g. Gingrich's idea that the minority party should make Congress fail to win the next election)--the more Congress is fighting with each other, the less they get done (and the more likely they harm the country, e.g. with the recent removal of the filibuster for Supreme Court nominees). Political animosity among the public could also give Russian spies in Congress cover to act in more harmful or divisive ways ("I was just doing what my constituents wanted!").

As a general rule, in any divide and conquer strategy you want your opponent to be fighting themselves instead of fighting you. Divide and conquer is, paradoxically, a method of waging conflict based on the idea that conflict is wasteful.

For the Russians, political polarization specifically (which has been rising significantly for the past several decades http://www.people-press.org/2016/06/22/partisanship-and-political-animosity-in-2016/) has the added benefit of literally making Americans dumber, as explained above. Polarization clobbers partisans ability to reason objectively about politicized issues (partisan motivated reasoning), and more and more issues are becoming politicized. Researchers have been trying to tackle political polarization in America with limited success:


http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/09/how-politics-breaks-our-brains-and-how-we-can-put-them-back-together/453315/
	A MONTH OF SPEAKING TO scientists about the political brain produced no shortage of depressing conclusions. Their research reveals our brains to be frustratingly inept at rational, objective political discourse. And those revelations come at a time when elected officials have strong incentives to stay the partisan course, and when the people who elect those officials are increasingly getting their political news through sources pre-tailored to reinforce their opinions.

	But the research is more than just another explanation for our current partisan morass. On balance, it offers a better case for optimism—about Congress, about voters, about your outspoken extremist uncle at Thanksgiving, and about the power of reason in democracy. Because the research is also revealing that our brains, while imperfect, are surprisingly flexible, and that they can be nudged in a better direction. Yes, we wall ourselves off from unappealing truths. But when motivated—by money, by the right environment, by an affirmed sense of self, by institutions that value truth and civility—those walls come down.


As far as the human brain is flexible, values and standards can mitigate the effects of polarization. But this can also go the other way--traumatic events like the 2016 election can rewire partisans brains to hate each other enough that standards get thrown out the window. This seems to be something the Russians are gunning for:


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...infowars.com ... zerohedge.com ... naturalnews.com...


https://www.infowars.com/america-on-the-brink-of-bloody-civil-war/
	America On The Brink Of Bloody Civil War
	Tensions in the U.S. are higher than ever

	Alex Jones breaks down the deep state’s strategy in creating civil unrest in America to usher in a time of chaos to which the only solution presented will be total communism.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-04-21/simple-reason-why-second-american-civil-war-may-be-inevitable
	The Simple Reason Why A Second American Civil War May Be Inevitable

	...You can feel it in the air. Our nation has clearly never been this divided since the Civil War. A lot of people noticed it after the last election, but the truth is that these divisions have been deepening for decades, and they’re just now reaching a very noticeable breaking point. 

	...One Trump supporter admitted to being surrounded, pepper sprayed, and beaten with sticks by a mob of “protesters.”

	But wait, that’s not the dark part. After these groups clashed, the leftist protesters took to Reddit and admitted that they lost this particular battle (I can’t believe I’m using the word “battle” to describe it), and that it was time for them to attain more combat training and better weapons, including firearms.


http://www.naturalnews.com/055146_social_chaos_election_results_popular_revolt.html
	Chaos will erupt across America in less than 100 days... no matter who wins the election

	As I've publicly predicted numerous times over the last year, if Donald Trump wins, the radical extreme leftists go on a violent rampage that leads to the rest of us begging for martial law. After half a dozen cities burn with riots and looting, Trump invokes a national emergency, deploying National Guard troops across the most devastated urban areas, and the radical left finds itself in a shooting war with the government.

	If Hillary Clinton wins, all the Trump supporters who have been violently assaulted, spat upon and physically attacked by the radical left un-holster their concealed weapons and start shooting back. This quickly escalates into open warfare between lunatic leftist Hillary supporters and armed Trump "Second Amendment" people who basically figure they've got nothing left to lose anyway, so why not fight to save America?

	...Hundreds of millions of guns across America are now in the hands of people who are fed up with being stomped on, ridiculed and marginalized by a corrupt leftist regime that's destroying America

	...What the author is saying is, essentially, America is quite likely just 70 days away from the start of the next revolution... or even events that could escalate into Civil War.

	...A Hillary victory would set off an immediate popular revolt

	If Hillary wins the election, it's hard not to imagine some sort of popular revolt across America as the citizens reject the obvious criminality and corruption of not just the Clinton crime family but also a complicit mainstream media. The same media that has funneled millions of dollars into the Clinton Foundation also intentionally downplays all the Clinton scandals. The entire system is a corrupt, incestuous, rigged f--kfest that benefits the deceitful plutocrats whom the voters are sick and tired of seeing remain in power.

	...If Trump wins, the globalist banksters crash the debt bubble to unleash mass chaos

	...Once the globalists declare open warfare against the Trump administration, all bets are off and anything could unfold over the next few years. Expect things to get very nasty, very desperate and incredibly violent. Life as you know it in America is about to be disrupted in a serious way.

	By the way, I also predict that Edward Snowden, Julian Assange and Anonymous will all play key roles in these unfolding events, exposing mind-blowing government secrets that spur populations across many western nations into escalating their action against the corrupt government regimes they've foolishly allowed to rule over them. Much of the real war taking place across our globe right now is a cyber war... a "war of secrets" where the hackers and cyber activists are increasingly exposing all the corruption and criminality of governments, which maintain their power by constantly lying to the public and withholding the truth.

	...Even if Clinton does win the election and occupy the White House, the global end game is fast approaching anyway. A Clinton White House only further encourages the calls for revolt across the population, and Hillary's deep corruption and criminality is so despised by nearly all soldiers and police officers that it's hard to imagine her being able to demand respect from either of those groups. In fact, it's a lot easier to imagine a military coup against President Clinton that it is to imagine a successful eradication of the Second Amendment by her presidency. Even if Clinton ordered police across America to go door to door and confiscate all the firearms of private citizens, what cop would be stupid enough to even attempt such a suicide mission?

	I can't overstate this point: Things are at a breaking point in America, and the only thing holding back a mass revolt right now is the looming election, which presents at least a glimmer of hope to the people of America that they might beat back tyranny and government oppression with a Trump victory.

	...What Washington elites utterly fail to realize is that for many Americans, they have nothing else left to lose if they lose this election. They've already lost their job and their health coverage. In many places across America, they're losing their own national flag and national pride. They've been ridiculed, condemned and spat upon by the dishonest media and the crybully leftist f--ktards, and they realize full well that if they don't draw a line in the sand right here, right now, they're going to be disarmed, enslaved, impoverished and named "enemies of the state" in the very same country they once fought for (and pledged allegiance to).

	The psyche of real America has reached its last straw. With the culture under attack, the Constitution demonized, religious beliefs targeted for merciless condemnation and the industrial base of America utterly gutted beyond restoration, there is nothing left to surrender to the demands of the tyrannical left. It is at that breaking point where, in the minds of many citizens throughout history, they pick up pitch forks and march en masse against the oppressors in power.

	We are very, very close to that day in America. It may, in fact, unravel in just the next 100 days. No matter who wins this election, mass violence breaks out across America in one way or another.


Supposedly, something like this has worked before:


http://www.kansascity.com/opinion/article136721193.html
	How did the plantation owners mislead so many Southern whites?

	They managed this con job partly with a propaganda technique that will be familiar to modern Americans, but hasn’t received the coverage it deserves in our sesquicentennial celebrations. Starting in the 1840s wealthy Southerners supported more than 30 regional pro-slavery magazines, many pamphlets, newspapers and novels that falsely touted slave ownership as having benefits that would – in today’s lingo – trickle down to benefit non-slave owning whites and even blacks. The flip side of the coin of this old-is-new trickle-down propaganda is the mistaken notion that any gain by blacks in wages, schools or health care comes at the expense of the white working class.


https://www.civilwar.org/learn/articles/why-non-slaveholding-southerners-fought
	...Southerners heard the identical message from their community leaders.  In the fall of 1860, John Townsend, owner of a cotton plantation on Edisto Island, authored a pamphlet delineating the consequences of Lincoln’s elevation to presidency.

	...Non-slaveholders, he predicted, were also in danger.  “It will be to the non-slaveholder, equally with the largest slaveholder, the obliteration of caste and the deprivation of important privileges,” he cautioned.  “The color of the white man is now, in the South, a title of nobility in his relations as to the negro,” he reminded his readers.


http://www.independent.co.uk/news/science/archaeology/historians-reveal-secrets-of-uk-gun-running-which-lengthened-the-american-civil-war-by-two-years-9557937.html
	Other research, carried out over the past decade, has revealed the extraordinary extent to which substantial sections of Britain’s business elite were working with impunity to help the slave-owning southern states win the Civil War – despite the fact that Britain was officially neutral and had outlawed slavery almost 30 years earlier.

	...The entirely illegal, but tacitly British-Government-approved pro-Confederate gun-running operation is thought to have lengthened the American Civil War by up to two years – and to have therefore cost as many as 400,000 American lives.

	...Researcher Gerald Hayes is piecing together the previously unstudied details of a complex of more than half a dozen blockade-busting companies based in Liverpool and London and their relationship with other Confederate sympathizers – including pro-Confederacy MPs at Westminster.

	Britain was split down the middle in its attitude to the American Civil War. The left, many liberals and much of the working class was pro-US and anti-Confederate – mainly because of the South’s pro-slavery stance. But many Tories and much of the business sector were actively pro-Confederate, as there were considerable fortunes to be made from supplying guns, uniforms, medicines, textiles and even food to the south.

	Geopolitically, the British government saw the USA as a growing challenge to its global domination – especially in terms of merchant marine carrying capacity. The British also feared US expansionism and potential US-originating threats to Canada and British colonies in the Caribbean.

	“Economically Britain saw huge advantages in the break-up of the United States. It saw the American South as a source of raw cotton – and as a market for manufacturing goods, whereas it saw the North as an industrial competitor which sought to use protectionist policies to exclude Britain from American markets,” said Dr. Graham.


(also, FWIW for U.S. - British relations: all that Britons that did that are now dead)


Partisan animosity has another key benefit for the Okhrana--thanks to partisan motivated reasoning, the more Republicans and Democrats hate each other, the easier it is for the Okhrana to blame their activities on America's partisans. If the Okhrana can get Republicans and Democrats to hate each other enough, Democrats will *want* to believe Republicans are out to destroy America, and vice versa:


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...infowars.com ... ronpaulinstitute.org ... russia-insider.com...


https://www.infowars.com/video-liberal-plan-to-destroy-america-revealed/
	Video: Liberal Plan To Destroy America Revealed

	Globalists plan to destabilize world by flooding Europe and US with illegal immigrants...


https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2016-03-24/how-russia-is-weaponizing-migration-to-destabilize-europe
	How Russia Is 'Weaponizing' Migration to Destabilize Europe


http://www.ronpaulinstitute.org/archives/peace-and-prosperity/2017/june/15/there-will-be-blood-the-alexandria-shooting-and-civil-war-in-america/
	There Will be Blood: The Alexandria Shooting and Civil War in America

	The shooting at a Republican baseball practice in Virginia shouldn’t come as a surprise. It’s the result of months of establishment agitprop. From Kathy Griffin posing with Trump’s severed head to a Trump-like Julius Caesar killed in Central Park play, the media has fixated on strife between the two establishment parties.

	This isn’t an accident. It’s designed to keep Americans distracted and at each other’s throats as the economy slowly implodes and the wars expand with horrific toll.

	The election of Trump provides a unique opportunity to create partisan battle lines. Social media is rife with venom and hatred as the alt-left faces off against the alt-right. Factions are established and receive support behind the scenes from George Soros, the Koch Brothers, and the Democrat “resistance,” a ludicrous moniker cooked up by the Democratic National Committee under its new chairman Tom Perez. The DNC announced it will throw a million dollars at its Summer of Resistance. This will further widen the political divide. Polarization is increasingly intense and the establishment propaganda media is fanning the flames.

	...We’re in the early stages of an engineered civil war. Who benefits from this? The state.


https://www.infowars.com/trump-is-right-heres-proof-hillary-obama-founded-isis/
	Trump Is Right: Here’s Proof Hillary & Obama Founded ISIS
	Hillary even admitted U.S. created al-Qaeda, the precursor of ISIS


http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2013/07/09/ex-soviet-bloc-`spy-chief-explains-hidden-origin-todays-jihad.html
	By 1972, Andropov's disinformation machinery was working around the clock to persuade the Islamic world that the U.S. intended to transform the rest of the world into a Zionist fiefdom. He wanted us to convince Muslims that the U.S. Congress was a "Council of the Elders of Zion" which conspired to have the Jews take over the world. If we whipped up Muslim anti-Semitism, then terrorism and violence against Israel and America would naturally follow.

	Thus, the Romanian DIE (counterpart of KGB foreign intelligence), which I headed, in 1972 received from the KGB an Arabic translation of the old Russian forgery, “The Protocols of the Elders of Zion.” We also received "documentary" material in Arabic produced by the Soviet disinformation "proving" America was a Zionist country whose aim was to transform the Islamic world into a Jewish fief. 

	My DIE was ordered to disseminate these documents within its targeted Islamic countries. During my later years in Romania, the DIE disseminated thousands of copies of “The Protocols” and similar “documents” each month.

	...What is the lesson here for us? We can win the current War on Terror only by detoxing the Islamic world of its anti-Americanism. When I worked for the Soviet bloc disinformation machine, I helped foment that toxin.


http://www.nytimes.com/2002/10/26/world/anti-semitic-elders-of-zion-gets-new-life-on-egypt-tv.html
	Anti-Semitic 'Elders of Zion' Gets New Life on Egypt TV

	The ''Protocols,'' which purports to depict Jewish leaders plotting world dominion, has long been recognized as a fabrication by the czarist secret police. It was used in early 20th-century Russia and in Nazi Germany as a pretext for persecution of Jews. Still, the show's backers say they are keeping an open mind about its authenticity. They say that in any event, reality seems to bear them out, in that Israel controls part of the Middle East.

	''In a way, don't they dominate?'' said Hala Sarhan, Dream TV's vice president and feisty personality on the air. ''Of course, what we read from the 'Protocols,' it says it's a kind of conspiracy. They want to control; they want to dominate. I represent everybody in the street. We will see whether this happened throughout history or not.''

	Ms. Sarhan is quick to point out that the material about the ''Protocols'' is only one aspect of a sweeping television panorama. But others who have seen the entire program say that a Zionist conspiracy to control Arab lands is one of the themes running through the series.

	At one point, men in the Arab anti-British resistance movement find the ''Protocols'' and have it translated, said a co-writer, Muhammad Baghdadi. ''They discovered that many things in this document were happening in reality,'' Mr. Baghdadi said, ''whether they were written by the Jews or not.''


http://www.terrorism-info.org.il/en/article/454
	The Syrian régime, both the former, controlled by the late president Hafiz al-Assad and the current, controlled by his son Bashar, is infected with anti-Semitism. The comments made by Bashar, the anti-Semitic bias of the Syrian media (including the production of anti-Semitic TV shows such as The Exile1) and the publication of anti-Semitic books (including the new edition of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion) have all given witness to it.

	A new edition of The Protocols was published early in 2005 and, as noted by the publisher, authorized by the Syrian Ministry of Information in May 2004. It is marketed through DarAl-Awael’s Internet site, as are other anti-Semitic books. 

	The roots of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion lie in classic, Christian European anti-Semitism; however, the introduction to the Syrian edition also supports its libels with Islamic sources, and the result is a fusion of European and Islamic motifs. Not merely a reissuing of the familiar Protocols, it has been prefaced with an introduction and chapters dealing with current political issues, combining anti-Semitic myths of Jewish world domination, theories of Jewish influence on world politics and on American policy, encouragement of Palestinian terrorism and blatant anti-American and anti-Israeli incitement. 


http://dailysignal.com/2015/07/24/why-are-russian-hackers-posing-as-isis-propagandists/
	Why Are Russian Hackers Posing as ISIS Propagandists?


https://www.counterpunch.org/2017/06/22/sorry-but-its-entirely-the-rights-fault/
	Sorry, But It’s Entirely the Right’s Fault

	Many commentators are suggesting that both right and left are equally to blame for all the polarization between them. They’re wrong. The reason for all the bitterness between left and right is entirely the right’s fault. Right-wingers who suggest otherwise are self-deluded – and usually projecting.

	Exhibit A: Newt Gingrich.


http://www.newsweek.com/american-who-dared-make-putins-case-231388
	The American Who Dared Make Putin’s Case
	By Zoë Schlanger On 3/10/14 at 6:35 PM 

	An academic with generally progressive beliefs married to Katrina vanden Heuvel, editor-in-chief of the left-leaning Nation, he has a view of events in Ukraine that urges Americans to understand Putin’s point of view.

	In his article “Distorting Russia,” Cohen wrote that American “demonization” of Putin in news coverage amounts to “toxic” “media malpractice” that verges on the alarmist language of the Cold War.

	...But while their opinions have gone largely unremarked, Cohen has been widely derided as a Putin apologist. Yet former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, of all people, has backed him up.

	Cohen says he is the real American patriot and those who are pressing President Barack Obama and the European Union to counter the Russians in Crimea are a danger to our national security.


http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1403/03/sitroom.01.html
	COHEN: Well, you know, Reagan says it -- said it took two to tango, and that's absolutely true. I'm pushing back against the American narrative.

	The long story is -- and I'll give it to you short -- in the 1990s, President Clinton decided to begin to expand NATO toward Russia. Russia is now on NATO's borders. That's a military alliance.

	To make the short story in the foreground, in November, when this current crisis in Ukraine began, Putin said to Washington and to Brussels, to the European Union, why are you forcing Ukraine to choose between Russia and the west? Why don't we do a joint economic aid to Ukraine? And our answer was, "No, it's either/or. It's our way or the highway." And now you are where you are. 

	BLITZER: Let's let the former speaker, Newt Gingrich, respond. Go ahead.

	NEWT GINGRICH, CO-HOST, "CROSSFIRE": There's a lot to what he just said.

	BLITZER: A lot of accuracy?

	GINGRICH: A lot of accuracy. The United States and Europeans have been trying to pull Ukraine away from Russia at a time when half their natural gas and oil comes from Russia. They're deeply in debt to the Russians. Crimea is, in fact, a Russian naval base. It was a Soviet Union base. It goes back 300 years as Russian territory. And I think Putin sent a lot of signals that he was going to do something sooner or later.

	I worry about this both in terms of Crimea and what happens to Ukraine but also in terms of what lessons does he learn about dealing with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, who are members of NATO and are on the northern Russian flank? It's very important that Putin understands there are consequences to this kind of aggressiveness, but I do think that the United States and Europe did a lot to set up the crisis. 


http://www.nytimes.com/1996/01/21/weekinreview/seeing-green-the-red-menace-is-gone-but-here-s-islam.html
	In the absence of other compelling threats to the United States, Islamic radicalism has also seized the imagination of some in Congress. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who has warned about "totalitarian Islam," led Congress last month to approve $20 million in covert aid to moderate Iran's behavior. No matter that there is no viable opposition to Iran's Government; that the Central Intelligence Agency has concluded that despite severe economic problems the regime is not going to collapse any time soon, and that the policy is likely only to fuel paranoia in Teheran that the United States is determined to destroy Iran's Islamic republic. The initiative was so odd that the Administration (which calls Iran an "outlaw state") found itself in the bizarre position of weakening the covert program so its mandate did not include overthrowing Iran's Government.


https://www.thenation.com/article/how-newt-gingrich-crippled-congress/
	How Newt Gingrich Crippled Congress

	No single person bears more responsibility for how much Americans hate Congress than Newt Gingrich. Here’s what he did to it.

	...There is no greater pathology in today’s Congress than obstructionism, from Speaker John Boehner’s (R-OH) refusal to raise the debt ceiling in July to Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) taking disaster relief funds for Hurricane Irene hostage. Both parties have long used Congress’s procedural rules to promote legislation they favor, but Gingrich created something new. “There is the assumption—pioneered by Newt Gingrich himself, as early as the 1970s—that the minority wins when Congress accomplishes less,” Representative Steny Hoyer (D-MD), the number-two Democrat in the House, explained in a 2009 speech at the Center for American Progress Action Fund. “Gingrich’s proposition, and maybe accurately, was that as long as…our party cooperate[s] with Democrats and get[s] 20 or 30 percent of what we want and they get to say they solved the problem and had a bipartisan bill, there’s no incentive for the American people to change leadership,” Hoyer told the Washington Post after the speech. “To some degree, he was proven right in 1994.”


https://www.theguardian.com/theguardian/1999/jan/27/features11.g22
	Like pathologists trying to explain a freak viral outbreak, American historians have been poring over the McCarthyist phenomenon for the past half-century, striving to explain how a small group of legislators, the House Un-American Activities Committee, managed to paralyse US democracy and scar a generation.

	But the great, ironic secret at the committee's roots has emerged only now, in Moscow. According to newly unearthed KGB files, the committee's founding father - the man who paved the way for Senator Joe McCarthy's witch-hunts - was a Soviet spy.

	His name was Samuel Dickstein, a Democratic congressman from Manhattan who created the committee's prototype in 1934 as a means for hunting down home-grown Nazis.


http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/features/why-republicans-still-reject-the-science-of-global-warming-w448023
	It took a new generation of hard-line Republican politicians, led by House Speaker Newt Gingrich, to make the environment a partisan issue while positioning the GOP as the party of the fossil-fuel industry. Oil, gas and coal companies had typically divided their campaign donations evenly between the two parties; now they began funneling tens of millions of dollars to the GOP – two and three times more than Democrats received – and into front groups and sham think tanks working to undermine climate science. Flush with cash, the Republican leadership "started running the Congress from the top down," Waxman recalls. "Committees had less and less say over policy, decisions were made at the level of the speaker, and a lot of legislation was being drafted behind closed doors with special interests."


https://www.infowars.com/paper-global-warming-biggest-science-scandal-ever/
	Paper: ‘Global Warming’ Biggest Science Scandal Ever
	Globalists falsify temperature records


http://russia-insider.com/en/russia-already-knows-man-made-climate-change-hoax-now-west-waking/ri19041
	Russia Already Knows Man-Made Climate Change Is a Hoax. Now It's Time For the West to Wake Up

	Climate change is a fanatical western dogma based on fabricated data. And Russia is a proud and unapologetic heretic


https://www.newscientist.com/blogs/shortsharpscience/2009/12/since-over-1000-confidential-e.html
	Climategate: Russian secret service blamed for hack


This is a tactic that the Okhrana uses over and over again. The same principle works for animosity between countries, ethnic groups, really any groups of people that can be put in conflict: people who hate each other are inclined to blame each other for their problems. The famous Okhrana forgery "The Protocols of the Elders of Zion" (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Protocols_of_the_Elders_of_Zion) blamed a "global Zionist conspiracy" for much of the same kind of clandestine or subversive activities the Okhrana was up to, perhaps taking advantage of the antisemitism of the time. The KGB forgery "U.S. Army Field Manual 30-31B" (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._Army_Field_Manual_30-31B) blamed U.S. military and intelligence agencies for the same. And the NKVD's "Tanaka Memorial" (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tanaka_Memorial) blamed Japanese leadership for incidents that, at least, had more than a few Okhrana fingerprints (see https://pastebin.com/e4qCs1AT). It can be said that animosity is another tool for the Okhrana to cover their tracks.

Clinton is also useful to them in this regard--it looks like there were attempts in Russian propaganda to blame Clinton for Justice Scalia's death, for example, and possibly some kind of effort to blame Clinton for the Russian print and social media propaganda targeting the left:


https://twitter.com/RogerJStoneJr/status/793147437389144064
	More dead than will fit in a Twitter animation, so many the artist got ill making it. #ClintonBodyCount #StopHillary http://stopthesteal.org 


https://www.infowars.com/wet-works-podesta-email-makes-assassination-reference-days-before-scalia-death/
	‘Wet Works’: Podesta Email Makes Assassination Reference Days Before Scalia Death
	“Didn't think wet works meant pool parties at the Vineyard.”

	Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta used a term known to reference assassination in an email sent to a lobbyist days before Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia’s mysterious death.


http://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/killed-antonin-scalia-conspiracy-theorists-run-wild-article-1.2533100
	Who killed Antonin Scalia? Conspiracy theorists run wild 

	A blogger who conjures up conspiracy theories under the name Paladin Justice said Bill and Hillary Clinton may have orchestrated Scalia’s killing in an attempt to stifle a possible Supreme Court ruling over the former Secretary of State’s email controversy.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-04-25/hillary-unleashes-million-dollar-professional-internet-troll-army
	Hillary Clinton-aligned Super PAC, Correct the Record, is taking a page out of Vladimir Putin’s playbook by employing a $1 million dollar professional internet troll army to build a paid, positive consensus about the Clinton campaign. 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-10-08/podesta-files-show-illegal-coordination-david-brock-super-pac
	Another startling discovery from the "Podesta Emails" seems to indicate that the Clinton campaign openly coordinated with the "Correct The Record" Super PAC run by David Brock...which we believe is technically a felony.  That said, we're sure the FBI could find a way to argue the intent.  


http://www.mintpressnews.com/trolling-way-white-house-clinton-linked-pac-launches-1m-campaign-trump-bernie-bros/216264/
	Hillary Clinton is taking her battle for the White House to social media, as a new super PAC linked to her campaign prepares to spend big to participate in online flame wars.

	...Chris Matyszczyk, CNET’s reporter on online culture, suggested Clinton was adopting Trump’s tactics. “It’s not a pretty picture for Trump and it is, indeed, just the sort of thing he himself would release if he were running against himself,” he wrote of one ad earlier this month.

	Clinton is increasingly perceived to be losing control of the election, at least on social media. “The lack of engagement is one of Clinton’s bigger tactical vulnerabilities, particularly when compared with rivals like Donald Trump, whose viral social media attacks are legion, and Sen. Bernie Sanders, who is backed by a passionate army of media-savvy millennials,” Halper wrote.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-10-09/new-email-leak-reveals-unprecedented-coordination-between-hillary-campaign-and-press
	Newly Leaked Emails Reveal Unprecedented Coordination Between Hillary Campaign And Press

	It is no secret that the mainstream media has a "slight" left-leaning bias in their political reporting.  But newly leaked emails from Guccifer 2.0, obtained exclusively by The Intercept, reveal just how "cozy" and pervasive the Clinton campaign's relationship is with the press.  From "off-the-record dinners with the key national reporters" to feeding pre-written propaganda pieces to "friendly" journalists, the new leaks reveal startling coordination between the Clinton campaign and the mainstream media.

		...We have has a very good relationship with Maggie Haberman of Politico over the last year. We have had her tee up stories for us before and have never been disappointed.


This is another way Comey's decision worked in the Russians' favor: Russian propaganda had long built-up Clinton as some kind-of globally-connected, shadowy figure able to buy influence and buy her way out of justice--a fitting scapegoat. But Comey's handling of the case added to that perception, essentially that the system is rigged for shady, powerful people, and that Clinton is one of those people:


https://www.intellihub.com/clinton-family-criminal-roots-exposed/
	One woman even claimed that she “had sex” and did “cocaine” at toga parties” with Clinton’s crew and other prominent members of government and the police department on a number of occasions when Hillary, Bill’s wife, was “nowhere to be found.”

	At one point the criminal activity became so blatant that it was said to be commonly known throughout certain circles exactly what had been taking place, people even ended up dead. Many were awaiting indictments but the Clinton family tentacles were just too long and the path taken by investigators led to nowhere.


https://www.lewrockwell.com/lrc-blog/our-shadow-government-the-cfr/
	Hillary Clinton admits that the CFR runs the Government


https://www.infowars.com/hillary-to-use-shadow-government-to-cancel-the-election/
	Hillary To Use Shadow Government To Steal The Election
	A group literally called “the shadow government” was overseeing the Clinton email inquiry


http://www.mintpressnews.com/new-fbi-docs-reveals-shadowy-group-protected-clinton-email-investigation/221545/
	New FBI Docs Reveals Shadowy Group Protected Clinton In Email Investigation

	...In the FBI’s summary, the Shadow Government is said to have urged the FBI to drop the investigation documents all at once “for coordination purposes.” This information comes from an unidentified person, the FBI documents claim.


https://www.infowars.com/fbi-source-clinton-foundation-can-bring-down-entire-government/
	FBI Source: Clinton Foundation Can Bring Down Entire Government

	“There is enough for her and the entire government to be brought down,” he revealed. “People do not realize how enormous this whole situation actually is.”

	...“The problem is with the Clinton Foundation as I mentioned, which you should just imagine as a massive spider web of connections and money laundering implicating hundreds of high-level people,” the source said. “Though I do not have a high opinion of Hillary, she is just a piece – albeit a big piece – of this massive sh*tstorm.”

	...“Bill Clinton met with Lynch, and he was there to assure her that when Hillary gets to be president she’ll be able to keep her job,” said Nichols on the Alex Jones Show Friday. “I would imagine he gave Lynch a slip of paper that had on it a couple of things about the career prosecutors that are working the case. What was on that? The things they have on them. The drugs, women, men, whatever.”

	The source indicated the Clinton Foundation is likely a nexus of blackmail material keeping everyone in D.C. in line behind the Clintons – even those with tremendous influence.

	...Additionally, the source said the investigation took so long because FBI Director James Comey didn’t want to face the “Clinton Machine” and the “rest of Washington D.C.”

	“…This case would explode into a million other cases if fully brought to light, and then we would be one agency competing against the entire government and a hoard of other interests,” he continued. “


http://www.breitbart.com/2016-presidential-race/2016/09/10/exposed-fbi-director-james-comeys-clinton-foundation-connection/
	Exposed: FBI Director James Comey’s Clinton Foundation Connection


https://www.infowars.com/fbi-comey-a-clinton-fixer/
	Confirmed: Comey Planted Inside FBI as Clinton Fixer
	Former FBI Director made sure Clintons were never prosecuted

	FBI Director James Comey is a Clinton-fixer with a long history of running interference within the Department of Justice to make sure the Clintons are never prosecuted – a loyalty that the Clintons have repaid in corporate board appointments that have earned Comey millions of dollars.  


http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2016/07/21/judge-napolitano-what-if-fix-was-in-for-hillary-at-obama-justice-department.html
	Judge Napolitano: What if the fix was in for Hillary at the Obama Justice Department?

	...What if FBI management began to intimidate FBI agents who had the goods on her? What if FBI management forced agents to sign highly irregular agreements governing what the agents can tell anyone when it comes to what they learned about Clinton?


The effect of this shouldn't be understated--a lot of Trump's campaign involved raging at the "lying mainstream media" and accusing Clinton of plotting to rig the election. But there was fairly-wide perception that the media was biased in favor of Clinton, and rumors that Clinton rigged the Democratic primary in ways beyond what was reveled by the DNC hacks. If Americans were suspicious that the justice system was rigged in favor of Hillary, it's not a large step to suspect the media or election systems could be rigged too:


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/tony-brasunas/only-voter-suppression-can-stop-bernie-sanders_b_9780128.html
	Only Voter Suppression Can Stop Bernie Sanders

	...The biggest issue, and something the corporate media barely touches, is that Hillary’s two wins over the past month  —  New York and Arizona  —  came in the two state primaries that were most fraught with problems and that are now under legal investigation.

	A similarity between the two states is disturbing. In both states, massive voter roll changes and purges took place in the days and weeks leading up to the primary, disqualifying thousands upon thousands of new Democratic voters.


http://time.com/4472169/russian-hackers-arizona-voter-registration/
	Russians Hacked Arizona Voter Registration Database -Official

	Russians were responsible for the recent breach of Arizona's voter registration system, the FBI told state officials in June.


http://www.gallup.com/poll/197090/majority-voters-think-media-favors-clinton.aspx
	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump frequently accuses the media of biasing its coverage of the 2016 election campaign in favor of his Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton. A majority of registered voters (52%) agree with the Republican nominee. Meanwhile, 8% think the media favors Trump and 38% perceive no media bias.


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=krP7rqYKHxs
	Bernie Sanders Schools Clueless News Anchor On Why Hillary Clinton Lost 


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J8cOLIOaikU
	What did CNN mean by this?


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/volokh-conspiracy/wp/2016/10/17/remember-its-illegal-to-possess-wikileaks-clinton-emails-but-its-different-for-the-media-says-cnns-chris-cuomo/
	‘Remember, it’s illegal to possess’ WikiLeaks Clinton emails, but ‘it’s different for the media,’ says CNN’s Chris Cuomo


https://www.infowars.com/cnn-its-illegal-to-read-wikileaks-clinton-emails-you-have-to-go-through-us/
	CNN: “It’s Illegal” To Read Wikileaks Clinton Emails, You Have To Go “Through Us”
	"Everything you're learning about this, you're learning from us," he says

	...The most important up to this point, according to Wikileaks themselves, is the revelation Hillary Clinton knew Saudi Arabia and Qatar were funding ISIS in 2014 yet took over $30 million from both nations through her crooked foundation.

	Additionally, Bill Clinton was given a $1 million dollar “birthday check” from ISIS funding Qatar.

	These facts alone should be enough to indict both Hillary and Bill Clinton for treason, but the sold out GOP are a bunch of cowards and traitors and would prefer Hillary beat Trump so the rigged system continues unabated.


https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/16/cnns_chris_cuomo_thank_god_for_leakers.html
	CNN's Chris Cuomo: "Thank God For Those Leakers"

	CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR: So, the president is once again providing the pathway to our understanding on something. The White House came out with a quick response in the form of General McMaster, respected national security adviser. He said, story is false that you heard. President didn't reveal any sources, methods or any military operations that weren't already public.

	Now, apple and oranges. That's not what "The Washington Post" reporting was about. It was about what the president may have given in detail of highly classified information that could allow the Russians to deconstruct, backtrack and find out where it might have come from.

	So, different things. But then the president this morning doesn't follow McMaster. He takes his own path, which is much closer to the reporting.

	...I have the absolute right to do, he says. Facts pertaining to terrorism and airline flight safety. Humanitarian reasons, plus, I want Russia to step up their fight against ISIS and terrorism. I have been asking Director Comey and others from the beginning of my administration to find the leakers in the intelligence community.

	Thank God for those leakers, Senator Sasse, otherwise we might not have known about this 


http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/15/politics/nancy-pelosi-cnn-town-hall/index.html
	Pelosi made her comments at a CNN town hall Monday evening moderated by anchor Chris Cuomo in the wake of a Washington Post report citing current and former US officials saying Trump revealed highly classified information in a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak last week.

	"It undermines the trust that we would have with our allies," Pelosi said.

	National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster pushed back on the report from the White House Monday evening, saying, "I was in the room. It didn't happen."
Pelosi said McMaster's response was not satisfactory.

	"I thought that the statement of McMaster's was sad for him, for him to be able to come out and speak in that way," Pelosi said. 

(OK, I put that last bit on Pelosi in there on purpose)


But it does look like a lot of the rigging by "Clinton agents" was, in fact, done by Russian agents.

This isn't to absolve Clinton of her misdeeds--Both Clinton and her husband have a long history of shady behavior:


https://www.highbeam.com/doc/1P2-4175323.html
	 WASHINGTON A federal judge Tuesday ordered the White House not to destroy any files, reports or correspondence that belonged to the now-disbanded health care task force headed by Hillary Rodham Clinton.

	U.S. District Judge Royce C. Lamberth, concerned about a report that boxes of task force mail have been shredded, told the administration to say who is in charge of the record-keeping.

	"I want a name and address of who's going to be accountable, and who's going to be held in contempt if there are documents destroyed," Lamberth said.


http://www.nytimes.com/1994/08/29/us/health-care-debate-what-went-wrong-health-care-campaign-collapsed-special-report.html
	THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE: What Went Wrong? How the Health Care Campaign Collapsed -- A special report.; For Health Care, Times Was A Killer

	...In hindsight, people who worked for the task force say its organization and secrecy planted the seeds of trouble for the President. 

	 The policy experts developing proposals for universal coverage, a comprehensive package of health benefits and Federal subsidies for poor people, rarely spoke to the fiscal experts. The task force deferred the discussion of costs. Experts on mental health and long-term care argued for a richer and richer package of benefits without knowing how much it would cost. Meeting, but Not Listening

	Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Magaziner met with many outside groups, but did not confide in them. After one such meeting, in March 1993, Dr. Quentin D. Young, chairman of Physicians for a National Health Program, which represents 6,000 doctors, said, "It was a magnificent exercise in pseudo openness." 


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marc_Rich#U.S._indictment_and_pardon
	In 1983 Rich and partner Pincus Green were indicted on 65 criminal counts, including income tax evasion, wire fraud, racketeering, and trading with Iran during the oil embargo (at a time when Iranian revolutionaries were still holding American citizens hostage). The charges would have led to a sentence of more than 300 years in prison had Rich been convicted on all counts.

	...Learning of the plans for the indictment, Rich fled to Switzerland and, always insisting that he was not guilty, never returned to the U.S. to answer the charges. Rich's companies eventually pleaded guilty to 35 counts of tax evasion and paid $90 million in fines, although Rich himself remained on the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Ten Most-Wanted Fugitives List for many years, narrowly evading capture in Britain, Germany, Finland, and Jamaica.

	...On January 20, 2001, hours before leaving office, U.S. President Bill Clinton granted Rich a highly controversial presidential pardon.


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/onpolitics/2016/11/01/fbi-marc-rich-pardon-files/93136458/
	The FBI gave the Hillary Clinton campaign another unpleasant surprise Tuesday, this time releasing 129 pages of documents from a 2001 investigation into Bill Clinton's controversial presidential pardon of fugitive Marc Rich.

	..."This initial release consists of material from the FBI's files related to the William J. Clinton Foundation, a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization," reads a statement on the FBI records vault website. "The bulk of these records come from a 2001 FBI investigation into the pardon of Marc Rich (1934-2013), aka Marcell David Reich, by President Clinton in 2001;"

	...In a statement, the FBI said that any material requested three or more times under the Freedom of Information Act is automatically made available to the public online on a "first in, first out basis."

	...Comey took over the FBI probe into the Rich pardon in 2003 and the case was closed in 2005 with no charges filed...


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marc_Rich#U.S._indictment_and_pardon
	...Denise Rich had given more than $1 million to Clinton's political party (the Democratic Party), including more than $100,000 to the Senate campaign of the president's wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, and $450,000 to the Clinton Library foundation during Clinton's time in office.


http://www.nytimes.com/2002/06/21/us/prosecutors-clear-clintons-in-clemency-of-4-hasidic-men.html
	Federal prosecutors said yesterday that no criminal wrongdoing was committed when President Bill Clinton commuted the sentences of four swindlers from a Hasidic enclave in New York State that voted overwhelmingly for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.

	James B. Comey, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said in a two-sentence statement that he had closed his investigation of clemency granted to the four men from New Square, N.Y.

	Mr. Comey said he would continue the investigation into the more than 170 other pardons and clemencies Mr. Clinton granted on his last day of office, including the one that has drawn the most ire: a pardon for the financier Marc Rich, a commodities trader who fled the country in 1983.

	The New Square case also drew attention because of its mix of the Clintons, New York ethnic politics and suggestions of vote-trading.
Continue reading the main story

	The four men, convicted of bilking the state and federal government of tens of millions of dollars, were prominent members of New Square, a reclusive Rockland County village. The village leaders' aggressive courting of the president and Mrs. Clinton before and after the 2000 Senate election raised questions of whether the men's sentences were reduced in exchange for votes.

	''The investigation was closed because we thoroughly investigated and determined it wasn't appropriate to bring charges against anybody in the case,'' Mr. Comey said at a news conference on an unrelated case. ''I can't really go into it because it was an investigation that didn't result in charges. That may be a frustrating answer, but that's the one I'm compelled to give.''


http://www.nytimes.com/1996/01/06/us/elusive-papers-of-law-firm-are-found-at-white-house.html
	Elusive Papers of Law Firm Are Found at White House

	After nearly two years of searches and subpoenas, the White House said this evening that it had unexpectedly discovered copies of missing documents from Hillary Rodham Clinton's law firm that describe her work for a failing savings and loan association in the 1980's.

	Federal and Congressional investigators have issued subpoenas for the documents since 1994, and the White House has said it did not have them. The originals disappeared from the Rose Law Firm, in which Mrs. Clinton was a partner, shortly before Mr. Clinton took office.

	The newly discovered documents are copies of billing records from the Rose firm, where Mrs. Clinton helped represent Madison Guaranty, a savings and loan run by James B. McDougal, the Clintons' business partner in the Whitewater land venture. The originals are still missing. Investigators have been seeking the documents to determine the role Mrs. Clinton played in the firm's representation of the savings and loan.

	The Clintons' personal lawyer, David E. Kendall, said tonight that the documents show that the work Mrs. Clinton performed was limited both in time and scope, as she has repeatedly said.

	But Representative Jim Leach, the Iowa Republican who heads the House Banking Committee, said he believed the billing records contradict Mrs. Clinton's account of her involvement with Madison, and show that her legal work for the savings and loan was "extensive and detailed."

	Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, tonight called the discovery of the copies of the records "the second miraculous discovery within the past 24 hours."

	Mr. D'Amato, who is chairman of the Senate Whitewater committee, was referring to the disclosure on Thursday of a two-year-old memorandum written by a former Presidential aide. The memorandum said that Mrs. Clinton had played a far greater role in the dismissal of employees of the White House travel office than the Administration has acknowledged.

	By their sheer volume -- 115 pages -- and the variety of contacts and conferences they document, the Rose billing records raise new questions about Mrs. Clinton's account of her work that are likely to give new impetus to investigations in Congress and by Federal prosecutors.

	...Investigators have also been trying to determine whether Mrs. Clinton sought to block Justice Department lawyers from examining files in Mr. Foster's office in the days after his death. White House aides searched the office and brought files to the Clintons' private residence before allowing investigators to look at them.


http://www.nytimes.com/1996/06/05/us/hillary-clinton-s-fingerprints-among-those-found-on-papers.html
	Hillary Clinton's Fingerprints Among Those Found on Papers

	Republicans on the special Senate Whitewater committee released a report from the Federal Bureau of Investigation today showing that the fingerprints of the First Lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton, were found on records discovered in the White House family quarters two years after they were first sought by investigators.

	...But Mark Fabiani, a special White House counsel, said Mrs. Clinton had acknowledged that she probably read the documents in 1992 during the election campaign when questions about Whitewater were being raised by reporters. He added that she had testified under oath that she had nothing to do with the documents during the two years they were missing and did not know how they ended up in the family quarters.


http://www.cbsnews.com/news/whitewater-case-closed/
	Six years and more than $50 million in taxpayer money later, an independent counsel has concluded there is "insufficient evidence" to charge President Clinton and First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton with any criminal wrongdoing in the Whitewater land deal in Arkansas.

	"The invesigation in connection with Madison Guaranty / Whitewater matter is now closed," said Independent Counsel Robert Ray on Wednesday, hours after releasing his written statement on the matter.

	The White House immediately cheered the outcome as New York voters are just seven weeks away from deciding whether to elect Mrs. Clinton to the U.S. Senate.

	...In June, Ray found "substantial evidence" that Mrs. Clinton played a role in the purge of the White House press travel office. She swore to congressional investigators in 1996 that she had no role in the decision to fire the employees.

	In March, Ray concluded there is no credible evidence of criminal activity in the White House's improper gathering of hundreds of FBI background files of former Republican appointees.

	...Mrs. Clinton's billing records disclosed that she prepared a real estate document valuing a parcel of Castle Grande property at $400,000. The federal government got just $38,000 for it six years later following the S&L's collapse. Federal regulators concluded the S&L used the document prepared by Mrs. Clinton to deceive bank examiners about hundreds of thousands of dollars in commissions paid to Ward.

	Questioned about her work for the S&L, Mrs. Clinton said on 99 occasions in a two-and-a-half hour interview with federal regulators in 1996 that she was unable to recall it.

	The billing records reveal that Mrs. Clinton and Ward spoke at least 15 times from mid-November 1985 to June 1986 about Castle Grande and other business related to McDougal's S&L. Mrs. Clinton and Ward said they didn't recall the conversations. Ward died this year.

	The Clintons have criticized the Whitewater probe as politically motivated. 


http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/politics/special/whitewater/committee.pdf
	104TH CONGRESS

	INVESTIGATION OF WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION AND RELATED MATTERS

	[pg 3 of 690]

	...JAMES B. COMEY, Deputy Special Counsel...


Rather, a lot of evidence points to Russian intelligence finding people like Bill and Hillary Clinton (or Trump for that matter) and promoting them to positions of power. This has already gotten too long, but it does look like the Russians have been interested in Clinton for awhile:


http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/09/politics/podesta-manafort-lobbying/index.html
	One of Washington's most powerful lobbying firms did not disclose the wide extent of its lucrative political work for a Ukrainian group tied to both onetime Trump adviser Paul Manafort and to pro-Russian politicians, new records show.

	The firm, the Podesta Group, said nothing in a 2012 lobbying report to Congress about at least 32 meetings, emails and other communications it had with the State Department, at a time when Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was scrutinizing Ukraine's upcoming election, records show.

	...The Podesta Group was representing a Ukrainian nonprofit, the European Centre for a Modern Ukraine, as it sought to counter the Obama administration's critical stance toward Ukraine's pro-Russia government and Congress' growing annoyance with Ukraine's leaders.


http://abcnews.go.com/Blotter/russian-fem-spy-cynthia-murphy-spooked-us/story?id=16061957
	Russian Fem Spy Spooked US, But It Wasn't Anna Chapman

	April 3, 2012 

 	A female Russian agent got "close enough" to a sitting U.S. cabinet member that the FBI felt they had to swoop in and arrest the lot -- but it wasn't the famous femme fatale Anna Chapman, federal officials said today. 

	...."We were becoming very concerned they were getting close enough to a sitting U.S. cabinet member that we thought we could no longer allow this to continue," Figliuzzi said. 

	 ...According to court documents relating to the spies' arrest, Murphy had been in contact with a fundraiser and "personal friend" of Hillary Clinton, who took the office of Secretary of State in January 2009. The fundraiser, Alan Patricof, said in a statement in 2010 he had retained Murphy's financial services firm more than two years before, had met with her a few times and spoke with her on the phone frequently. Patricof said they "never" spoke about politics, the government or world affairs.

	A spokesperson for Clinton told ABC News in 2010 that at the time there was "no reason to think the Secretary was a target of this spy ring." 


http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/06/29/AR2010062904525.html?hpid=topnews
	Clinton confidant believes he might have been spies' target

 	...Patricof said he was as surprised as everyone else by his involvement, albeit peripherally, with the spies.

	"It's just staggering," said Patricof in a telephone interview. "It's off the charts." 

	..A shocked Patricof reiterated in the interview that, "We never discussed anything but paying the bills." 

 	..."This is the most wild story ever," said Patricof. 


http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2014/03/11/hillary-clinton-donor-back-in-the-fundraising-mix/comment-page-1/
	Hillary Clinton donor back in the fundraising mix

	(CNN) - After Hillary Clinton lost the 2008 primary to President Barack Obama, Alan Patricof, a wealthy financier who had helped raise sizable donations to the Clinton campaign, took a step back from politics.

	...Attendees to the Tuesday night fundraiser paid the maximum allowable campaign donation for an individual under current campaign laws: $32,400 per person.

	...Patricof has been a longtime supporter of Clinton. In 2008, he was part of a loyal group of fundraisers – called the "Hillraisers" – who donated and bundled millions of dollars for the then-senator's White House bid.

	When asked by CNN earlier this year if he would look to bundle and fundraise for Clinton in 2016 – should she run – he said, "Yes, I can say that with certainty."

	"I remain a Clinton supporter," Patricof said. "I definitely am very supportive of Hillary should she decide to go forward."

	In the invitation to the Obama fundraiser, Patricof acknowledged his "various efforts to convince Hillary to run in 2016 and to demonstrate financial, as well as moral support, if she decides to go forward."


http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/229759-clinton-fundraiser-donors-tripping-over-themselves-to-back-hillary
	Longtime Hillary Clinton friend and fundraiser Alan Patricof says that major Democratic donors are "tripping over themselves" to donate to the former secretary of State.

	Appearing on "Bloomberg Surveillance" on Friday, Patricof was asked if "all of the deep Democratic pockets" are still behind Clinton. 


https://www.usnews.com/news/politics/articles/2015/08/28/clinton-quietly-trying-to-discourage-biden-from-a-2016-bid
	In ways both subtle and blunt, Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign is sending a message to Vice President Joe Biden about his potential presidential campaign: This won't be easy.

	...Donors who have publicly expressed support for a Biden run have later been contacted by the Clinton team, according to fundraisers and Democratic strategists who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the private conversations. Even Clinton herself has made a few calls, they said, to express her disappointment in the defector.


http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/229759-clinton-fundraiser-donors-tripping-over-themselves-to-back-hillary
	..."Based on the number of calls I get on a daily basis, I’d say people are tripping over themselves. That’s why you have the formation of this organization called Ready for Hillary," Patricof said. 


Supposedly, Russian agents helped Clinton's Senate campaign too (some rough notes here: https://pastebin.com/Vx46ZcAM Also, the so called Mahogany Row "Shadow Government," who tried to cover-up Clinton's email scandal but ended up sensationalizing it, would be another good place to look for Russian agents.)

A theme is that Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton, and Trump all have something wrong with them--like they can't help lying or acting corruptly. The reader by now can guess what damage can be done to American society by promoting corrupt and unstable people to positions of power and influence.

Russian spies are said to be opportunistic in their scouting for future American leaders:


http://articles.latimes.com/2011/oct/31/nation/la-na-russian-spies-20111101
	Russian spies were succeeding, FBI official says

	The 10 sleeper agents exposed in 2010 were reportedly succeeding in efforts to rise in American society and gain connections to policymakers. 

	...The agents, whom the U.S. sent to Russia in July 2010 in the largest spy swap since the Cold War, are not accused of stealing any U.S. secrets. But they were more dangerous than commonly believed, C. Frank Figliuzzi, FBI assistant director for counterintelligence, said in an interview.

	They were "the cream of the crop" of trained Russian intelligence agents, he said, and they were sent here to blend in and befriend American policymakers. They were succeeding, Figliuzzi said.


http://www.newsbusters.org/blogs/nb/noel-sheppard/2010/07/10/biden-tells-leno-he-wanted-send-rush-limbaugh-russia-spy-swap
	LENO: Are they just sort of like moles, they just sort of plant people here and say, "See what you can find out?" Or do they come with a specific mission, "You're going to go work for Lockheed" or "You're going to work for..."

	BIDEN: The former. 


https://newrepublic.com/article/63602/now-we-know
	June 17, 2009

	But amusing though the details may be, the most significant contribution of Klehr's and Haynes's book is its revelation of the sheer extent of Soviet espionage in America, and the numbers of people involved in it. Despite the length of this hefty volume, Haynes and Klehr discuss only a portion of some five hundred agents who at some point worked for the KGB, and about whom some details can be found in Vassiliev's notes or in the Venona files. Not all of these people were actually passing on information. Some worked as handlers, couriers, recruiters and talent spotters. The role of others may well have been exaggerated, as critics have pointed out, by the eager workers of the KGB--though certainly not all of them, given the specific details of information handed over.

	If only a quarter of the people whose names appear in the files were truly agents, the numbers are still much larger than anyone previously suspected, and they represent a far deeper penetration into American society than we have hitherto known. As it turns out, the KGB in the 1930s had agents or contacts in the State Department, the Commerce Department, the Justice Department, and the OSS, the wartime intelligence agency. KGB associates were scattered throughout the Manhattan Project as well as in research institutions and private companies specializing in chemistry, aviation engineering, and physics. There were agents in the media and the literary world. The KGB even tried, not very successfully, to recruit Ernest Hemingway.


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2010/jul/09/spy-swap-whos-who-russia
	Cynthia Murphy, married to Richard Murphy, lived in a suburban neighbourhood in Montclair with their daughters, Kate, 11, and Lisa, 9. Concealing her true name Lydia Guryev, the 39-year-old worked for Morea Financial Services, a lower Manhattan-based accounting firm that offered tax advice, earning $135,000 a year, and had recently earned her MBA.

	Prosecutors said one of her assignments had been to network with Columbia University students.


https://books.google.com/books?id=JI6ZBQAAQBAJ&pg=PA115
	The 2009 case of Russian spy Lidiya Gurveva (using the name Cynthia Murphy) is particularly illustrative of how the campus environment can be exploited merely to collect information on professors and students. Gurveva was pursuing an MBA degree at Columbia Business School ... when her handlers gave her the following assignment:

		[S]trengthen...ties w classmates on daily basis .... [r]eport to C[enter] on their detailed personal data and character traits w. preliminary conclusions about their potential (vulnerability) to be recruited by Service.

	They also directed Gurveva to "dig up personal data of those students who apply (or are hired already) for a job at the CIA"


https://www.fbi.gov/news/stories/operation-ghost-stories-inside-the-russian-spy-case
	The deep-cover Russian spies may not have achieved their objective, but they were not idle. They collected information and transmitted it back to Russia, and they were actively engaged in what is known in the spy business as “spotting and assessing.”

	They identified colleagues, friends, and others who might be vulnerable targets, and it is possible they were seeking to co-opt people they encountered in the academic environment who might one day hold positions of power and influence.

	Perhaps the most famous example of this tactic—the Cambridge Five—took place in Great Britain. Soviet intelligence “talent spotters” were able to recruit Cambridge University students in the 1930s—including future spy Kim Philby—who would later rise to power in the British government and become Soviet operatives during World War II and into the 1950s.

	“We believe the SVR illegals may well have hoped to do the same thing here,” said a counterintelligence agent.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/russian-spies-eye-golden-prize-white-house-source/story?id=45531117
	“They always targeted political figures,” David Major, a retired FBI counterintelligence agent explained to ABC News. “They want to know who is a mover and shaker in our society, who affects it.”

	And today as questions continue to mount over what contacts Trump campaign aides may have had with Russian intelligence operatives, the White House continues to dispute media reports that any of the president’s associates had such contact while on the campaign trail.

	U.S. intelligence officials say the Russians are engaged in a massive campaign to infiltrate and disrupt American politics. It has gone on for decades, originally with the Cold War goal of placing a mole inside the White House, a retired KGB officer who once ran spy operations in Washington told ABC News.


Between Trump, Gore (see https://pastebin.com/r5PHGSnz), and Clinton (and Nixon? Obama?), we can make a good guess that part of what they're looking for is people who are easily influenced, craven, depraved, or morally flexible who they can promote in American society.


http://uselessdissident.blogspot.com/2008/11/interview-with-yuri-bezmenov-part-three.html
	This was my instruction: try to get into large-circulation, established conservative media; reach filthy-rich movie makers; intellectuals, so-called ‘academic’ circles; cynical, egocentric people who can look into your eyes with angelic expression and tell you a lie. These are the most recruitable people: people who lack moral principles, who are either too greedy or too [much] suffer from self importance. They feel that they matter a lot. These are the people who[m] [the] KGB wanted very much to recruit.


http://uselessdissident.blogspot.com/2008/12/love-letter-to-america-part-two.html
	...Do not shun the aid of the lowest and most despicable individuals of your enemy's country...

 
(And to be clear Clinton, Trump, and Gore don't strike me as witting agents, and I guess there are different levels of "recruiting" somebody--just having Russian agents in a position to advise them might be enough to make them unwitting agents.)


And a dishonest and loathed agent of influence is more useful than one might think--remember how Gore helped the Russians politicize climate change:


https://www.livescience.com/22069-polarization-climate-science.html
	...Part of the problem is that climate change has moved out of the realm of research and into the political arena

	...This was in the midst of the polarizing Clinton administration, and for some, the association made global warming belief seem unsavory. Even today, many climate-change naysayers think of former vice president Al Gore when they hear the words "climate change."

	"They loathe Al Gore," Leiserowitz said. "Sometimes I joke that Al Gore could hold a press conference tomorrow to say that science has determined that the Earth is round and people out there would say, 'Well, no it isn't.'" 


It's often that the best way to get someone to believe a lie is to let them know you're a liar and tell them the truth. For Clinton, Comey's handling of the email probe brought her dishonesty and penchant for scheming to the forefront of national attention:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/even-without-charges-fbi-rebuke-leaves-a-heavy-political-cloud-over-clinton/2016/07/05/79b6f712-42c8-11e6-bc99-7d269f8719b1_story.html
 	FBI rebuke leaves a heavy political cloud over Clinton 

	Public polls show that many voters do not trust Clinton and that the email controversy already has harmed her political standing. Polls consistently show that roughly two-thirds of Americans do not consider Clinton “honest and trustworthy” — typically her lowest rating in a series of attribute questions.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/07/25/4-brutal-poll-numbers-that-greet-hillary-clinton-at-the-democratic-national-convention/
	4 brutal poll numbers that greet Hillary Clinton at the Democratic National Convention

	July 25, 2016

	...68 percent say Clinton isn't honest and trustworthy

	That's according to the CNN poll, and it's her worst number on-record. It's also up from 65 percent earlier this month and 59 percent in May. The 30 percent who see Clinton as honest and trustworthy is now well shy of the number who say the same of Trump: 43 percent.

	You heard that right: Trump — he of the many, many Pinocchios — now has a large lead on Clinton when it comes to honesty and trustworthiness.

	...Her image has never been worse

	...Gallup's new numbers on Monday — 38 percent favorable and 57 percent unfavorable — are also unprecedented over the course of Clinton's political career.

	This also appears to be the first time ever that Clinton's image measures worse than Trump's. It does so in both polls.


But this was just in time for Clinton to start using Trump's ties to Russia as a campaign talking point:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/07/24/here-are-the-latest-most-damaging-things-in-the-dncs-leaked-emails/
	Here are the latest, most damaging things in the DNC’s leaked emails 

	July 25, 2016


http://www.cnn.com/2016/07/24/politics/robby-mook-russia-dnc-emails-trump/index.html
	Clinton's campaign manager: Russia helping Trump

	Mon July 25, 2016

	Hillary Clinton's campaign manager is alleging that Russian hackers are leaking Democratic National Committee emails critical of Bernie Sanders in an effort to help Donald Trump win the election in November. 

	..."I don't think it's coincidental that these emails were released on the eve of our convention here, and I think that's disturbing," he said. 

	...Mook downplayed the possibility that the email release will rip open divides between supporters of Clinton and Sanders just before the Democratic National Convention kicks off in Philadelphia. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/07/24/here-are-the-latest-most-damaging-things-in-the-dncs-leaked-emails/
	...Many of the most damaging emails suggest the committee was actively trying to undermine Bernie Sanders's presidential campaign.

	...When the Sanders campaign alleged that the Clinton campaign was improperly using its joint fundraising committee with the DNC to benefit itself, Clinton campaign lawyer Marc Elias offered the DNC guidance on how to respond.

	"My suggestion is that the DNC put out a statement saying that the accusations the Sanders campaign are not true,"

	...On May 21, DNC national press secretary Mark Pautenbach suggested pushing a narrative that Sanders "never ever had his act together, that his campaign was a mess."

	After detailing several arguments that could be made to push that narrative, Paustenbach concludes: "It's not a DNC conspiracy, it's because they never had their act together."


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-cyber-democrats-idUSKCN10B0ST
	Mon Aug 1, 2016 

	Clinton says Russia behind DNC hacking, draws line to Trump

	U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said on Sunday that Russian intelligence services hacked into Democratic National Committee computers and she questioned Republican rival Donald Trump's overtures to Russian President Vladimir Putin.

	"We know that Russian intelligence services hacked into the DNC and we know that they arranged for a lot of those emails to be released and we know that Donald Trump has shown a very troubling willingness to back up Putin, to support Putin," Clinton said in an interview with "Fox News Sunday."

	The United States has not publicly accused Russia of being behind the hack of Democratic Party computers.


http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/presidential-races/290540-new-clinton-video-questions-trumps-ties-to-putin
	Clinton video questions Trump's ties to Putin

	A new video from Hillary Clinton's campaign questions Donald Trump's connections to Russian leader Vladimir Putin and suggests the Kremlin may be trying to influence the U.S. presidential election. 

	...The video also hits Trump for complimenting the Russian president. 

	It displays the text "We don't know why Trump praises Putin" before playing a video clip of the Republican presidential nominee saying Putin has been a "very strong leader."

	The video also questions Trump campaign chief Paul Manafort's ties to Putin, referencing his work with a former pro-Putin prime minister in the Ukraine.

	"We don't know why Russia is trying to influence this election," the text continues ahead of video clips tying Russia to leaked emails from Democratic National Committee leaders. 

	"We don't know what's going on here, and Donald won't tell us," the text concludes. "We'll let you guess." 


http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2016/09/06/russian-conspiracy-hillary-clinton-absurd-trump/
	Hillary Clinton’s Absurd, McCarthyist Russian Conspiracy Theory

 	Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton reiterated her campaign’s bizarre conspiracy theory Monday that Russia is working with Donald Trump to steal the 2016 election. 


http://www.cnn.com/2016/07/24/politics/robby-mook-russia-dnc-emails-trump/index.html
	"What a joke," Trump senior communications adviser Jason Miller said in a statement. "This shows that Hillary Clinton will do and say anything to win the election and hold onto power in the rigged system."

	Donald Trump Jr., the son of the Republican nominee, also bashed Mook's comments later on "State of the Union."

	"It just goes to show you their exact moral compass. I mean they'll say anything to be able to win this. This is time and time again, lie after lie," Trump Jr. told Tapper. "It's disgusting. It's so phony. I watched him bumble through the interview."

	He added "These lies and the perpetuating of nonsense to try to gain some political capital is outrageous and he should be ashamed of himself."


http://21stcenturywire.com/2016/11/01/hillarys-russian-hack-hoax-the-biggest-lie-of-this-election-season/
	Hillary’s ‘Russian Hack’ Hoax: The Biggest Lie of This Election Season

	...Anyone who was paying attention back then knew this ‘Russian hack’ talking point was purely political, but then again, who’s really paying attention these days? Certainly not the US media.

	...as Charles Lane of the Washington Post pointed out on Fox News’ Special Report later that day, the Russians are no longer communists


http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/presidential-races/289420-trump-i-hope-russia-is-able-to-get-clintons-emails
	Trump: 'I hope' Russia is able to get Clinton's emails
	07/27/16

	Trump on Clinton's email: "Russia, if you're listening, I hope you're able to find the 30K emails that are missing" pic.twitter.com/zU83hXkEuy

	Donald Trump on Wednesday said he hopes that Russian hackers have obtained the tens of thousands of emails that Hillary Clinton deleted from her private email server. 


https://www.infowars.com/wikileaks-assange-hillary-tries-to-link-trump-to-putin-to-hide-her-many-connections-to-russia-video-2/
	WikiLeaks’ Assange: Hillary Tries To Link Trump To Putin To Hide Her ‘Many Connections’ To Russia [VIDEO]

	“My analysis of Trump and Russia is that there is no substantial connection.”


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-03-24/deep-states-dominant-narratives-and-authority-are-crumbling
	The Deep State's Dominant Narratives And Authority Are Crumbling

	...If various Security Agencies sign off on the narrative that "Russia hacked our election" (a nonsense claim from the start, given the absurd imprecision of the "hacking"--hacking into what? Voting machines? Electoral tallies?), and that narrative is evidence-free and fact-free, i.e. false, then the expertise and authority of those agencies comes into legitimate question.

	...[picture of Boris and Natasha]

	The dominant narrative: these two are the source of all our problems.


https://theintercept.com/2016/08/08/dems-tactic-of-accusing-adversaries-of-kremlin-ties-and-russia-sympathies-has-long-history-in-us/
	Democrats’ Tactic of Accusing Critics of Kremlin Allegiance Has Long, Ugly History in U.S.
	Glenn Greenwald

	A frequent weapon for Democrats in the 2016 election is to publicly malign those they regard as critics and adversaries as Russia sympathizers, Putin stooges, or outright agents of the Kremlin. To put it mildly, this is not a new tactic in U.S. political discourse, and it’s worth placing it in historical context. That’s particularly true given how many people have now been targeted with this attack.

	Strongly insinuating that the GOP nominee, Donald Trump, has nefarious, possibly treasonous allegiances to Moscow has migrated from Clinton-loyal pundits into the principal theme of the Clinton campaign itself. “The depth of Trump’s relationship with the Kremlin is revealing itself by the day,” her website announced yesterday

	...But this smear tactic extends far beyond Trump. It is now used to vilify anyone perceived to be an impediment to Clinton’s victory.

	...When Bernie Sanders looked earlier this year to be the one who was standing in Clinton’s way, slimy suggestions began emerging of his dark connections to Russia.

	...Trump, WikiLeaks, Sanders, The Intercept, Jill Stein. Other than loyal Clinton supporters, is there anyone left who is not covertly controlled by or in service to The Ruskies?


https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/may/06/syria-israel-bombing-moral-relativism
 	Israeli bombing of Syria and moral relativism
	Glenn Greenwald

	...but then argues that the attack on Syria is justified, in part, by the fact that Assad has "apparently" used "chemical weapons" on his own people. The only problem...


To summarize, this is what happened:


- Clinton spends most of her life acting suspiciously and being dishonest, generally sets herself up as a villain

- James Comey draws attention to her email scandal in an unprecedented and galvanizing way, the world learns Clinton is a liar

- Clinton chooses the DNC leaks, of all things, to tie her opponent to Russia and further her campaign (which looks dishonest anyway, as if this were a strategy to dismiss the leaks), and does this ahead of the USIC

- Trump and the media do the rest of the work to downplay (welcome, even) or politicize Russia's meddling


Knowing how partisan motivated reasoning and "the messenger overwhelming the message" works, the outcome was predictable:


https://d25d2506sfb94s.cloudfront.net/cumulus_uploads/document/6oxnwsm36w/econTabReport.pdf#page=181
	July 30 - August 1, 2016

	From what you have heard, do you believe the Russian govenrment is responsible for hacking the DNC computers and leaking the emails? 

	                            Total   Democrat  Independent  Republican
	Russia is responsible       29%     42%       25%          18%
	Russia is not responsible   22%     17%       22%          28%   
	Not sure                    49%     41%       54%          53%


	...Do you think Donald Trump's remarks about Russian finding Hillary Clinton's emails were appropriate or inappropriate?

	                            Total   Democrat  Independent  Republican
	Appropriate                 27%     11%       27%          51%
	Inappropriate               58%     83%       54%          32%   
	Don't Know                  14%      5%       20%          17%


http://www.businessinsider.com/putin-poll-favorability-trump-2016-9
	According to a YouGov/Economist poll, Putin's favorability rating in July 2014, after the Russian annexation of Crimea, was -54 among Democrats and -66 among Republicans.

	A poll from the same outlets released in August 2016 showed that Putin's favorability rating among Democrats remained identical. But the Russian leader's rating among Republicans improved dramatically, from -66 to -27.


Comey and Clinton helped politicize Russia's interference, making debate on how to respond impossible (see: global warming) and, critically, giving Russian spies in Congress cover to downplay or ignore Russian meddling (Clinton's "hypocrisy" about her own Russian ties might be meant to help with this too). For some Republicans, Clinton and the "enemy of my enemy is my friend" effect might have made Putin look better, too.

In that sense, Clinton has been useful to the Russian government for awhile:


https://twitter.com/HillaryClinton/status/452130729691201536/photo/1
	Great to meet the strong & brave young women from #PussyRiot, who refuse to let their voices be silenced in #Russia.

	--Hillary Clinton


http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/pussy-riot-hillary-clinton-we-916063
	Pussy Riot on Hillary Clinton: "We Would Be Happy if America Chose a Woman" (Exclusive)

 	...Russia's punk provocateurs weigh in on how the DNC email scandal reminds them of life under Putin: "We are watched." 

	..."I do not believe that the ex-KGB is able to hit someone who is really strong," she said. "We would be happy if America chose a woman for president. It would be a wonderful sign that America is the land of opportunity."

	...Asked to comment on Russia's involvement in the hack, she said she couldn't say who, specifically, was behind the cyberattack. "Luckily I am not an agent of the Russian security services"

(she may or may not be an agent of the Russian security services)


http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/06/world/europe/russian-parliamentary-elections-criticized-by-west.html
	“A big hello to you,” says the cameraman, Yegor Duda, a 33-year-old volunteer election observer. “This is a violation of the criminal code. The chairman of the electoral commission is filling out ballots. Everything has been captured on the video camera,” he said.

	Mr. Duda raced home and uploaded the clip to YouTube. Though just three minutes long, it quickly became an election-day sensation, helping fuel a major demonstration of as many as 5,000 people on Monday evening in central Moscow. They chanted “Russia without Putin!” and “Putin is a thief.”  Several hundred were arrested, including two major opposition leaders. 


http://www.cnn.com/2011/12/06/world/europe/russia-elections-clinton/index.html
	Secretary of State Hillary Clinton called for a "full investigation" of irregularities in Sunday's parliamentary elections in which the party of Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin appears to have suffered a serious setback.

	"We have serious concerns about the conduct of the election," she said Tuesday as ministers gathered for a meeting of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.

	..."The Russian people, like people everywhere, deserve the right to have their voices heard and their votes counted," Clinton said. "And that means they deserve free, fair, transparent elections and leaders who are accountable to them."


http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/09/world/europe/putin-accuses-clinton-of-instigating-russian-protests.html
	Putin Contends Clinton Incited Unrest Over Vote

	In a rare personal accusation, Mr. Putin said Mrs. Clinton had sent “a signal” to “some actors in our country” after Sunday’s parliamentary elections, which were condemned as fraudulent by both international and Russian observers. Anger over the elections prompted a demonstration in which thousands chanted “Putin is a thief” and “Russia without Putin,” a development that has deeply unnerved the Kremlin.

	Speaking to political allies as he announced the formation of his presidential campaign, Mr. Putin said that hundreds of millions of dollars in “foreign money” was being used to influence Russian politics, and that Mrs. Clinton had personally spurred protesters to action. The comments indicate a breakdown in the Obama administration’s sputtering effort to “reset” the relationship between the United States and Russia.

	...“She set the tone for some actors in our country and gave them a signal,” Mr. Putin continued. “They heard the signal and with the support of the U.S. State Department began active work.”


http://www.ecfr.eu/article/commentary_how_russia_has_come_to_loathe_the_west311346
	Putin’s first public reaction to the protests was to blame the US. “Certain figures in Russia,” he said, “heard the signal and, with the support of the US Department of State, began active work.” In the following months, the term “GosDep” (the Russian acronym for the US State Department) became a political slur that stood for the “evil America” that was plotting against Russia. The pro-Kremlin propagandists launched a smear campaign aimed at discrediting the protesters by portraying them as serving the anti-Russian interests of the West. These accusations were soon extended to liberal journalists as well as civic and political activists, who were commonly condemned as the “fifth column” and “national traitors”.


For Russia, Clinton is the perfect boogeyman. Just like Gore has the power to make people believe global warming is a myth, Clinton discredits the people and ideas she claims to support. The idea that Russian agents helped Clinton's career shouldn't be surprising--she makes a mockery of our country:


http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/19/washington/19diplo.html
	Clinton Praises Indonesian Democracy

	“Indonesia has experienced a great transformation in the last 10 years,” she said, referring to the Asian financial crisis of 1998, which led to the ouster of Suharto, its autocratic president, and set Indonesia on the path to becoming a robust democracy.

	“If you want to know if Islam, democracy, modernity and women’s rights can coexist, go to Indonesia,” she said at a dinner of academics, journalists, environmentalists and women’s rights advocates.


http://freebeacon.com/politics/clinton-connections-paid-off-for-indonesian-tobacco-tycoon/
	Clinton Connections Paid Off for Indonesian Tobacco Tycoon’s Group

	An Indonesian tobacco magnate secured U.S. government assistance for his foundation after donating to Hillary Clinton’s and hiring lobbyists, themselves Clinton Foundation donors, who worked for Hillary Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign.

	The Putera Sampoerna Foundation, founded by the Indonesian tobacco heir Putera Sampoerna, got the U.S. government to underwrite millions in loans offered by the foundation and secured high-profile support for its activities from Sec. Clinton and other senior federal officials.


http://newsinfo.inquirer.net/788562/indonesia-on-track-to-worlds-highest-smoking-rates
	Loose regulations have also allowed the tobacco industry to target children, resulting in 20.3 per cent of teenagers aged 13 to 15 becoming smokers.

	In 2011, Philip Morris subsidiary Sampoerna erected a billboard in Jakarta depicting a young man reaching out to catch up with friends on a bus, with the slogan: “Dying is better than leaving a friend. Sampoerna is a cool friend.”


http://www.nydailynews.com/news/world/indonesian-boy-6-praised-cutting-5-cigs-day-article-1.2161081
	Indonesian boy, 6, praised for cutting down to 5 cigs a day


http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20130614005845/en/Clinton-Global-Initiative-Announces-Program-Train-Thousands
	Clinton Global Initiative Announces New Program to Train Thousands of Women Entrepreneurs

	Senator Hillary Clinton Highlights Importance of Supporting Women-Owned Businesses

	A new online business training program for women entrepreneurs across America was featured today by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton at the Clinton Global Initiative America (CGI) meeting in Chicago. American DreamBuilder: The Women’s Business Creator, is being created by Bluedrop Performance Learning, Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.


http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/clinton-helped-companies-that-donated-to-foundation-profit-off-africa/article/2564001
	Clinton helped companies that donated to foundation profit off Africa

	...At the time, Lundin owned a 24.75 percent stake in the mine and another company, Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold, owned 57.5 percent, leaving the Congolese government in control of 17.5 percent of the mine.

	Freeport is also a major Clinton Foundation donor, giving between $250,000 and $500,000, according to donor records.

	The Congolese government saw its stake in the mine climb by just 2.5 percent in 2010 after talks that were thought to have been conducted by the State Department "in support of Freeport," the Financial Times reported that year.


https://thunderbird.asu.edu/knowledge-network/clinton-global-initiative-america
	Behind the Scenes at the Clinton Global Initiative America

	On Friday June 14th, I stood on stage at the CGI America meeting beside my colleagues Tracy Bame from Freeport McMoRan Copper and Gold


https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/11/is-a-us-mining-company-funding-a-violent-crackdown-in-indonesia/249164/
	Is a U.S. Mining Company Funding a Violent Crackdown in Indonesia?

	...The strikers have a reason to be wary for their safety: Freeport is paying millions of dollars directly to the police officers who guard its mine, although Indonesia's police force has a history of brutality and corruption.

	...Rights organizations fear the security payments are tainting police neutrality in the region

	...In October, police officers opened fire on striking Freeport workers who were trying to board Freeport buses from the nearby town of Timika to demonstrate by the mine's gate. One striker died from gunshot wounds

	...Freeport has given $79.1 million to police and military forces in the past 10 years, according to a group called Indonesian Corruption Watch.  Most of that funding has been through in-kind contributions such as food, housing, fuel, and travel costs, but officers have also received direct payments.


Putin doesn't like democracy, and Clinton has reliably played the part of Putin's foil. She cheapens everything she says.

Reportedly, Putin and his associates don't like women either:


http://motto.time.com/4400914/fox-roger-ailes-gretchen-carlson-harassment/
	At least 6 more women have accused the Fox News CEO of harassment

	...One, Kellie Boyle, alleges that Ailes propositioned her in 1989 after learning she was to sign a contract with the National Republican Congressional Committee. After she refused him, she was passed over for the job. 

	...Another woman, Marsha Callahan, was a model when she met Ailes in the 60s. She auditioned for The Mike Douglas Show, which he was producing at the time. She says he specifically requested that she wear a garter belt to the interview and that he asked her to lift her skirt up several times during their conversation. Callahan says that he told her that she needed to sleep with him to get the job, and that he said, “Oh, pretty girls like you are a dime a dozen.”


http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/fox-donald-trump-pussy-grabbing-access-hollywood-harassment-seminars-hollywood-reporter-a7675451.html
	Fox uses Trump's 'pussy grabbing tapes to teach employees about harassment'


http://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/putin-officially-divorces-his-wife-lyudmila-n70141
 	Russian President Vladimir Putin has formally divorced his wife Lyudmila after more than 30 years of marriage, Kremlin spokesman said on Wednesday, following a surprise breakup announcement last year.

	"The divorce has taken place," Dmitry Peskov said, without giving any further details. 

	...In 2008, Putin said there was no truth to a newspaper report that he was preparing to marry Olympic rhythmic gymnast Alina Kabayeva, who was born in 1983, the same year he married Lyudmila.

	Putin told journalists to keep their "snotty noses" out of his private affairs and the newspaper, Moskovsky Korrespondent, folded shortly afterwards. 


https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/02/vladmir-putins-very-flexible-girlfriend-rumored-light-olympic-torch/357799/
	Vladimir Putin's Very Flexible Girlfriend Rumored to Light the Olympic Torch

	Alina Kabaeva is a 2004 Olympic champion in rhythmic gymnastics. She could be the one to light the Olympic flame at Sochi's opening ceremonies.


http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/russia/8865545/Vladimir-Putin-a-wife-beater-and-philanderer-documents-allege.html
	Vladimir Putin 'a wife beater and philanderer', documents allege 

	 The documents from the archive of the BND, Germany's spy agency, paint a dark picture of the Russian prime minister, who plans to return to the presidency next year.

	Gathering information through the work of an agent posing as an interpreter for Ludmilla Putina, Mr Putin's wife, the BND heard that the then youthful 33-year-old spy chief was a "wife beater and a philanderer" during his stint in the German city from 1985 to 1990. 


http://time.com/4663532/russia-putin-decriminalize-domestic-abuse/
	Vladimir Putin Just Signed Off on the Partial Decriminalization of Domestic Abuse in Russia

	Russian President Vladimir Putin has signed off on a law that partially decriminalizes domestic abuse, a measure that sailed easily through the country’s socially conservative legislature despite pushback from women's- and children’s-rights advocates.


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...amren.com...beforeitsnews.com...dailystormer.com...


https://www.amren.com/features/2015/06/the-cult-of-white-extinction-and-how-to-reverse-it/
	...Feminism is also an important factor in the decline in fertility in the West. White women have always been especially susceptible to feminism...


http://it-video.beforeitsnews.com/opinion-conservative/2015/05/obama-clinton-want-christians-to-change-our-beliefs-not-going-to-happen-3009326.html
	Obama & Clinton Want Christians To Change Our Beliefs – Not Going To Happen

	...Hilly has just said that we have to change what we believe in to support the Radical Feminist and Gay agendas. 


https://www.dailystormer.com/evil-wench-accuses-glorious-leader-of-collaborating-with-glorious-leader-east/
	Evil Wench Accuses Glorious Leader of Collaborating with Glorious Leader East

	Hillary Clinton, a braindamaged feminist icon who is running for President in America, has adjusted her tinfoil hat and accused the last White nation of supporting the last White candidate.

	...Hillary Clinton accused Russian intelligence of interfering with the American election


Reportedly, Putin tries to push a "traditional" and "patriarchal" society on the Russian people (https://www.theddguardian.com/commentisfree/2017/mar/22/vladimir-allies-russias-iron-ladies-useful-anti-feminists), and there's evidence he's trying to push that here too. For whatever reason, Putin seems to want women around the world to be submissive to men (It's fitting then, that if you look at the timeline of the Flynn controversy https://pastebin.com/nCwti01C it looks like Russian agents tripping over themselves trying everything they can to stop former AG Sally Yates).

But Clinton, with her uncanny power to discredit whatever she claims to stand for, helped Putin promote that idea too:


https://twitter.com/alanjpatricof/status/797805521420091392
	My beef over Hillary Clinton's loss is with liberal feminists, young and old https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/nov/12/hillary-clinton-liberal-feminists?CMP=share_btn_tw-as … always Tina Brown says it best!

	--Alan Patricof


https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/nov/12/hillary-clinton-liberal-feminists
	 My beef over Hillary Clinton's loss is with liberal feminists, young and old
	Tina Brown

	...“She was my champion. I miss her,” my 26-year-old daughter grieved last night. Every disappointed Democratic supporter has her own target for anger, it seems. My daughter’s is her fellow millennials, who didn’t come out in enough numbers to take Clinton to the White House. Clinton won this group by 54%, six points down from Obama in 2012. Always in a storm of umbrage about micro-aggressions, those crucial solipsistic stay-at-home millennials wound up enabling the macro-aggression of Donald Trump.


http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/apr/27/hillary-clinton-welcomes-trumps-woman-card-attack/
	‘Deal me in:’ Clinton welcomes Trump’s ‘woman card’ attack


https://www.hillaryclinton.com/post/om-what-hillary-clinton-said-after-becoming-first-woman-top-major-party-presidential-ticket/
https://m.hrc.onl/cms/original_images/27009973360_5c73d18c80_o.jpg
	"Woman Card"


https://www.hillaryclinton.com/post/om-what-hillary-clinton-said-after-becoming-first-woman-top-major-party-presidential-ticket/
	For the first time in history, ninety-six years after women first won the right to vote, a woman will be a major party’s nominee for President of the United States.

	After making history, Hillary Clinton had a message to share with the country: Tonight is for all of us—and the future we’re building together.

	"Tonight’s victory is not about one person. It belongs to generations of women and men who struggled and sacrificed and made this moment possible."

	"We all believe that America succeeds when more people share in our prosperity; when more people have a voice in our political system; when more people can contribute to their communities. We believe that cooperation is better than conflict, unity is better than division, empowerment is better than resentment, and bridges are better than walls."


http://www.bbc.com/news/av/election-us-2016-37329812/clinton-half-of-trump-supporters-basket-of-deplorables
	Clinton: Half of Trump supporters 'basket of deplorables'


https://www.hillaryclinton.com/post/om-what-hillary-clinton-said-after-becoming-first-woman-top-major-party-presidential-ticket/
    	..."Now you are writing a new chapter of that story. This campaign is about making sure there are no ceilings—no limits—on any of us."


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-biden-idUSKCN0QV01U20150826
	As U.S. Vice President Joe Biden considers jumping into the 2016 White House race, the Democratic donor class appears relatively united in its support of front-runner Hillary Clinton.

	"I like Joe Biden very much, but it's time to line up for Hillary and we are lining up," said Karin Birkeland, a top Democratic bundler for President Barack Obama in 2012 who recently committed to Clinton. "She has by far the best resume, she's ready, she's younger and she's a woman."


http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/299892-millennials-lack-enthusiasm-for-clinton-trump
	Millennials lack enthusiasm for Clinton, Trump

	...But the lack of enthusiasm felt by young voters interviewed by The Hill is clear. That’s a complication for Clinton


https://www.dailydot.com/layer8/elizabeth-warren-vp-yik-yak-survey/
	Millennials really want Hillary Clinton to pick Elizabeth Warren for VP 

	...they overwhelmingly favor Clinton tapping the consumer-advocate-turned-progressive-lawmaker for VP. Seventy-four percent of respondents wanted Clinton to pick Warren. Only 9 percent favored Sen. Tim Kaine 


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/06/elizabeth-warren-wall-street-vice-president-224489
	Big Wall Street donors have a message for Hillary Clinton: Keep Elizabeth Warren off the ticket or risk losing millions of dollars in contributions.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/transcript-hillary-clintons-interview-abc-news-anchor-david/story?id=39676932
	MUIR: The last 24 hours, Senator Tester, a key Democratic leader, was asked about the idea of a Clinton-Warren ticket. Elizabeth Warren, of course. He answered, ‘Is the country ready for two women? I don’t know.’ 

 	CLINTON: Well, I’m not gonna get into vice presidential choices but I have the highest regard for Senator Warren. 
	
	MUIR: Let’s put her name aside though. Do you think the country would be ready for two women?

	CLINTON: I think at some point. Maybe this time, maybe in the future. But we’re gonna be looking for the most qualified person to become president should something happen to me, if I’m fortunate enough to be the president.


https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/apr/06/hillary-clinton-interview-election-russia-misogyny
	Hillary Clinton: misogyny 'certainly' played a role in 2016 election loss

	In first post-election interview, former Democratic presidential candidate calls for US intervention in Syria and a ‘patriotic’ investigation into Russia


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...infowars.com ... prisonplanet.com ... newstarget.com...


https://www.infowars.com/trump-if-hillary-were-a-man-she-wouldnt-even-win-a-city-council-election/
	Trump: If Hillary Were A Man She Wouldn’t Even Win A City Council Election
	Presumptive GOP nominee once again refuses to rule out nuking ISIS.

	...In an appearance on NBC’s Today, Trump said that if Hillary were a man, she wouldn’t even be able to win a local election.

	“The primary thing that she has going is that she’s a woman and she’s playing that card like I have never seen anybody play it before,” Trump said Thursday morning.


https://www.prisonplanet.com/total-desperation-sets-in-as-president-obama-plays-the-woman-card.html
	Total Desperation Sets In as President Obama Plays the Woman Card

	With neither the racist nor the Putin-puppet label sticking to Trump, team Clinton and its lobotomized surrogates have regressed back to square one: playing the woman card.

	As I noted in a post earlier this week, a professor of linguistics at Berkeley just published an article at Time claiming (with zero evidence of course), that the Hillary Clinton email server scandal only exists because she is a woman.  Here’s a brief snippet of what she said:

		...I am mad. I am mad because I am scared. And if you are a woman, you should be, too. Emailgate is a bitch hunt, but the target is not Hillary Clinton. It’s us.

		The only reason the whole email flap has legs is because the candidate is female...

	I know. It’s really hard to believe the above is real, but it is.


http://www.newstarget.com/2016-11-08-why-hillary-clintons-fact-less-feminist-arguments-are-anything-but-womens-rights.html
	Why Hillary Clinton’s fact-less ‘feminist arguments’ are anything BUT women’s rights

	One of Hillary Clinton’s biggest weapons is the fact that she is a woman.

	In 2016, there are few tools greater than this one, which goes to show just how far feminism has drifted from its original purpose. Instead of promoting the equality of women, the modern feminist movement exists solely to silence men who happen to disagree with leftists on any subject


Active measures is sort-of like putting on a play (the historian Andrew Wilson calls it "political technology" https://www.opendemocracy.net/od-russia/andrew-wilson/political-technology-why-is-it-alive-and-flourishing-in-former-ussr): agents of influence play the part of protagonists and their foils, and their sum influence on the public is not so much what they say as it is the "lesson" of the "story" these agents play-out. Think I.F. Stone, playing a sort of "voice of reason" to McMarthy's "wild conspiracy theorist" (remember the Soviet spy Dickstein was his predecessor), with the moral of the story being "maybe Soviet influence operations aren't that big a deal after all."

From what can be gathered from their propaganda, the Okhrana's play was, roughly, this: America is an "imperialist" country, imposing a "decedent" Western version of democracy and equality on the rest of the world. Clinton, apparently, was meant to play the part of the corrupt, hypocritical Western leader who pays lip-service to these values only to grab power for herself. Comey's decision to let her off without a trial was where the villain's true colors are revealed, before Trump, the heroic underdog, finally defeats her, perhaps a prelude to Trump's final showdown with the shadowy and scheming "deep state." Clinton played her part well.


As for Comey, I think they've got a part written for him in the final act. The point of the rest of this letter is to guess the script and spoil the ending.


For the past year or so, there's been a sustained Russian propaganda campaign to paint the "elite press" as tools of the CIA, especially the Washington Post:


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...thefreethoughtporject.com ... zerohedge.com ... infowars.com ... hangthebankers.com ... mintpressnews.com ... washingtonsblog.com...


http://thefreethoughtproject.com/ulfkotte-cia-media-dead/
	Journalist Who Blew the Whistle on CIA Media Control Drops Dead at 56

	“I’m going to stand up and say it is not right what I have done in the past, to manipulate people, to make propaganda against Russia and it is not right what my colleagues do and have done in the past, because they are bribed, to betray the people not only in Germany all over Europe.”

	...As Ulfkotte became increasingly upset at news reports sourced from false government information, he began publishing a magazine called Whistleblower, which reports on topics not covered by the German media. He also wrote multiple books on the subject during the 2000s.

	Ulfkotte is best known to international viewers from select appearances on Russia Today, specifically an October 2014 interview about his book ‘Bought Journalists’, in which he discussed the epidemic of propaganda in mainstream media news reports and the increased anti-Russia sentiment being generated. He also discussed the heavy influence on international news from American, Israeli and other western intelligence agencies.

	...His comments were one of the earlier warnings about anti-Russia propaganda which came before the recent escalation which features American media claiming Russian officials influenced the 2016 US election in favor of Donald Trump.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-02-28/newly-declassified-documents-show-senior-cia-agent-and-deputy-director-directorate-i 
	A CIA operative told Washington Post owner Philip Graham … in a conversation about the willingness of journalists to peddle CIA propaganda and cover stories:

		You could get a journalist cheaper than a good call girl, for a couple hundred dollars a month.


	...In many instances, CIA documents show, journalists were engaged to perform tasks for the CIA with the consent of the managements of America’s leading news organizations.

	...An expert on propaganda testified under oath during trial that the CIA now employs THOUSANDS of reporters and OWNS its own media organizations. Whether or not his estimate is accurate, it is clear that many prominent reporters still report to the CIA.


https://www.infowars.com/washington-post-cia-connections-destroy-posts-election-hack-claim/
	Washington Post-CIA Connections Destroy Post’s “election hack” Claim
	Who exactly is the fake news outlet?

	...You might remember the Washington Post’s role in defaming and destroying Gary Webb, who, in 1996, published a series of articles in the Mercury News about the CIA seeding black Los Angeles neighborhoods with crack cocaine. The Post basically asked the CIA whether the charge was true, and when the Agency denied it, the Post attacked Webb as a “fake news” reporter. The same Washington Post is now leading the campaign to tie the Russian government to Hillary Clinton’s defeat. And the Post, once again, is using unproven statements from the CIA to back up their claim.

	I could go on and on about the Post and its historic CIA ties. But now, right now, the owner of the Post is Jeff Bezos, who also owns Amazon. And Amazon has a $600 million contract to provide the CIA cloud computing services (more here and here).

	Boom.


http://www.hangthebankers.com/washington-post-cia-spread-fake-news/
	Washington Post partners with CIA to spread fake news

	...You may recall that the Washington Post was a main player in launching stories about fake news sites after the presidential election.

	One of the biggest fake news outlets in the world (cough, the Washington Post) took the lead in “exposing fake news.”


http://www.mintpressnews.com/washington-post-called-disclosing-bezosamazon-600m-cia-contract-reporting-agency/176985/
	Activists Continue To Push Washington Post To Disclose Its CIA Connection

	But Executive Editor Martin Baron said the newspaper doesn’t need to routinely inform readers of the CIA-Amazon-Bezos ties when reporting on the CIA. 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-05-15/wapo-trump-revealed-highly-classified-information-meeting-russians-pentagon-denies
	WaPo: Trump Revealed "Highly Classified Information" In Meeting With Russians, White House Denies

	As expected, immediately after Wapo published their latest provocative Trump story, the mainstream media echo chamber went into full effect

	...Meanwhile, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, National Security Advisor H.R. McMaster and Deputy National Security Advisor for Strategy Dina Powell, all of whom were in the room during the meeting in question, all issued statements denying that classified information was divulged


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-12-20/cia-washington-post-and-russia-what-youre-not-being-told
	The CIA, Washington Post, And Russia: What You're Not Being Told

	According to an unsubstantiated article by the Washington Post, anonymous CIA officials have confirmed that the Russian government hacked the United States election to favor Donald Trump. Though it’s entirely possible the Russian government attempted to influence the election, the Post has been widely criticized — for the second time in a month — for its failure to follow basic journalistic practices. Nevertheless, the narrative is sticking.

	But the outlet’s behind-the-scenes relationship with the CIA is nothing new.


https://www.counterpunch.org/2016/11/30/the-cia-and-the-press-when-the-washington-post-ran-the-cias-propaganda-network/
	The CIA and the Press: When the Washington Post Ran the CIA’s Propaganda Network


http://www.washingtonsblog.com/2016/12/white-house-cia-ny-times-washington-post-cbs-etc-fake-news-report-unnamed-alleged-cia-source-without-evidence-russia-helped-trump.html
	White House, CIA, NY Times, Washington Post, CBS, etc. ‘fake news’: All ‘report’ unnamed alleged CIA source without evidence that Russia ‘helped’ Trump, but omits expert refutation, omits Stanford, American Statistical Association reports that DNC stole primary election from Sanders, and Clinton’s illegal rogue State Dept e-mails. 


https://theintercept.com/2017/01/04/washpost-is-richly-rewarded-for-false-news-about-russia-threat-while-public-is-deceived/
	WashPost Is Richly Rewarded for False News About Russia Threat While Public Is Deceived

	Glenn Greenwald

	In the past six weeks, the Washington Post published two blockbuster stories about the Russian threat that went viral: one on how Russia is behind a massive explosion of “fake news,” the other on how it invaded the U.S. electric grid. Both articles were fundamentally false. Each now bears a humiliating editor’s note grudgingly acknowledging that the core claims of the story were fiction: The first note was posted a full two weeks later to the top of the original article; the other was buried the following day at the bottom.


https://theintercept.com/2016/11/26/washington-post-disgracefully-promotes-a-mccarthyite-blacklist-from-a-new-hidden-and-very-shady-group/
	Washington Post Disgracefully Promotes a McCarthyite Blacklist From a New, Hidden, and Very Shady Group

	Ben Norton, Glenn Greenwald

	The Washington Post on Thursday night promoted the claims of a new, shadowy organization that smears dozens of U.S. news sites that are critical of U.S. foreign policy as being “routine peddlers of Russian propaganda.” The article by reporter Craig Timberg — headlined “Russian propaganda effort helped spread ‘fake news’ during election, experts say” — cites a report by an anonymous website calling itself PropOrNot, which claims that millions of Americans have been deceived this year in a massive Russian “misinformation campaign.”


Nicholas Schou's contribution is interesting. Sometimes he sounds like a typical Russian propagandist (and he at least touches on some of the more familiar propaganda https://pastebin.com/XTknug36):


https://whowhatwhy.org/2016/09/14/russians-really-using-cyber-tricks-undermine-us-democracy/
	September 14, 2016 | Nicholas Schou

	Are the Russians Really Using Cyber Tricks to Undermine US Democracy?
	Or is the Washington Post Playing Ventriloquists’ Dummy for the CIA

	Old Allies Fighting the New Cold War

	On Sept. 5, The Washington Post published a front page story asserting that the Russian government is seeking to undermine American democracy at a crucial time, using unspecified “cybertools” to spread disinformation and chaos that could alter the outcome of the Nov. 8 presidential election.

	“US intelligence and law enforcement agencies are investigating what they see as a broad covert Russian operation in the United States to sow public distrust in the upcoming presidential election and in US political institutions,” the Post reported.

	The paper’s source for this information? Anonymous “intelligence and congressional officials.” Not until the fifth paragraph of the story, which ran under the alarming headline, “US investigating potential covert Russian plan to disrupt November elections,” did the newspaper acknowledge that its stable of off-the-record sources had no “definitive proof” whatsoever of any Russian plot.

	Then, having issued the obligatory, if somewhat buried, disclaimer, the story went on to highlight the supposed threat posed by Russian hackers working for the Kremlin to the very foundation of American democracy.

	...This is hardly the first time the Post has allowed itself to serve as an unpaid asset of the CIA by running a story full of blind quotes highlighting some perceived national security threat. In fact, ever since the start of the Cold War, the newspaper has proved itself to be the most reliable media organ of the US national security state.

	The newspaper’s role in helping to build the illegitimate case for invading Iraq based on leaked reports of false evidence that Saddam Hussein had stockpiled weapons of mass destruction is perhaps the most famous example. However countless other examples exist, and they include editorial crimes of both commission and omission.

	...But as revealed by the recent hack of the Democratic National Committee (DNC), the only actual case of election-related hacking allegedly tied to the Kremlin, the endgame of that particular operation wasn’t to sabotage an election. In fact, the motive seems to have been exactly the opposite — to expose the fact that the DNC had sabotaged the party nomination campaign of Bernie Sanders.

	Sadly, we don’t need the Russians to undermine American democracy, because that mission has already been accomplished from within.


But he's otherwise more measured and "mainstream" about it. He has a book and articles in The Atlantic and Newsweek:


https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2016/07/operation-tinseltown-how-the-cia-manipulates-hollywood/491138/
	How the CIA Hoodwinked Hollywood

	Since its inception, the agency has wooed filmmakers, producers, and actors in order to present a rosy portrait of its operations to the American public.

	Nicholas Schou

	...In 1977, after this systematic media manipulation was publicly exposed by congressional investigations, the CIA created an Office of Public Affairs that was tasked with guiding press coverage of intelligence matters in a more transparent fashion. The agency insists that it no longer maintains a stable of friendly American journalists, and that its efforts to influence the press are much more above board. But, in truth, the intelligence empire’s efforts to manufacture the truth and mold public opinion are more vast and varied than ever before.


http://www.newsweek.com/cia-michael-dandrea-new-york-times-mark-mazzetti-drones-pakistan-al-qaeda-war-475180
	Outing the CIA’s ‘Undertaker’ Michael D’Andrea
	By Nicholas Schou

	...From its inception in 1947 until after the end of the Vietnam war, the CIA put reporters on its payroll. But after this practice was exposed during the Watergate era, Langley had to devise more subtle ways to manipulate coverage.

	Today, Mazzetti, like other national security reporters who are given access at Langley, has to constantly engage in an intricate choreography. In this dance with security officials, reporters sometimes take the lead, but often find themselves at their mercy. In December 2007, Mazzetti informed the CIA that he was about to publish a story revealing that Jose Rodriguez, the agency’s clandestine service chief, had destroyed evidence concerning the torture of two terror suspects. “I went to the CIA and told them I was going to write the story,” Mazzetti recalls. “I told them I was going to write it in two days, and put it in Friday’s paper. On Thursday, they called and said, ‘Are you really going to do this story?’”

	After Mazzetti said yes, an agency spokesperson told him that then-CIA Director Michael Hayden had just informed his staff that the destruction of the tapes had been leaked to the press. Suddenly, the Times reporter found himself scooped by Langley with apparent advance notice given to the Associated Press, presumably to punish him while rewarding a rival reporter.

	“That’s one of the risks we run when we have stories not favorable to the administration or CIA or Pentagon,” says Jonathan Landay of McClatchy Newspapers. “If we give them too much time, they will leak their version to someone else and upstage you. We are very cautious about when we inform a government agency that we are writing a story that they might not like.… We can’t give them too much time to respond, because they will leak it to someone else.”


http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/30/world/europe/30spy.html
	Spying Suspects Seemed Short on Secrets

	The suspected Russian spy ring rolled up by the F.B.I. this week had everything it needed for world-class espionage

	...The only things missing in more than a decade of operation were actual secrets to send home to Moscow. 

	...The assignments, described in secret instructions intercepted by the F.B.I., were to collect routine political gossip and policy talk that might have been more efficiently gathered by surfing the Web. And none of the 11 people accused in the case face charges of espionage, because in all those years they were never caught sending classified information back to Moscow

	... But why would Russian intelligence ask for such information from people settled in New Jersey rather than, say, Russian Embassy experts or specialists in Moscow or Washington?

	“It’s a Hail Mary pass,” said Milton A. Bearden, who served for three decades in the C.I.A.’s clandestine service and ran its Soviet and East European division as the Soviet Union fell.

	“Maybe I end up next to a guy that is the minority staff director on some committee and we do barbecues, or I coach his kid in Little League,” Mr. Bearden said. “How can you lose?”

	For the Russian government, he said, supporting the so-called illegals operation was probably relatively inexpensive

	...Clifford J. Levy contributed reporting from Moscow, and Mark Mazzetti and Peter Baker from Washington.


http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/29/world/europe/29spy.html
	In Ordinary Lives, U.S. Sees the Work of Russian Agents

	By SCOTT SHANE and CHARLIE SAVAGE JUNE 28, 2010 

	The alleged agents were directed to gather information on nuclear weapons, American policy toward Iran, C.I.A. leadership, Congressional politics and many other topics, prosecutors say. The Russian spies made contact with a former high-ranking American national security official and a nuclear weapons researcher, among others. But the charges did not include espionage, and it was unclear what secrets the suspected spy ring — which included five couples — actually managed to collect.

	...“The magnitude, and the fact that so many illegals were involved, was a shock to me,” said Oleg D. Kalugin, a former K.G.B. general who was a Soviet spy in the United States in the 1960s and 1970s under “legal” cover as a diplomat and Radio Moscow correspondent. “It’s a return to the old days, but even in the worst years of the cold war, I think there were no more than 10 illegals in the U.S., probably fewer.”

	...Reporting was contributed by ... Mark Mazzetti and Yeganeh June Torbati from Washington...


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/20/world/asia/china-cia-spies-espionage.html
	Killing C.I.A. Informants, China Crippled U.S. Spying Operations 

	By MARK MAZZETTI, ADAM GOLDMAN, MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and MATT APUZZO MAY 20, 2017 

	...Current and former American officials described the intelligence breach as one of the worst in decades. It set off a scramble in Washington’s intelligence and law enforcement agencies to contain the fallout, but investigators were bitterly divided over the cause. Some were convinced that a mole within the C.I.A. had betrayed the United States. Others believed that the Chinese had hacked the covert system the C.I.A. used to communicate with its foreign sources. Years later, that debate remains unresolved.

	...Those who rejected the mole theory attributed the losses to sloppy American tradecraft at a time when the Chinese were becoming better at monitoring American espionage activities in the country.

	...Still, the Chinese picked off more and more of the agency’s spies, continuing through 2011 and into 2012. 


http://www.jpost.com/Israel-News/Intelligence-File-Triangle-of-spies-493958
	The Jerusalem Post contacted the Times’s award-winning reporter Mark Mazzetti, who led the team of reporters on the China story, to get his take on the timing.

	Mazzetti said that his team had worked on the story for several months, and that neither the timing of the piece nor the motivation of their sources had anything to do with the news about the Trump intelligence leak. He said the story was reported and written before the other story broke.

	He indicated that the story had not even been “brought” to them, but that one reporter had just heard something from a source a few months ago, and that since then, the team on the story had been working on refining the story.

(I think Mazzetti's piece was some kind of attempt to intimidate/blackmail the CIA, not sure for what right now)


http://www.newsweek.com/cia-michael-dandrea-new-york-times-mark-mazzetti-drones-pakistan-al-qaeda-war-475180
	...Knowing what is going on in secret is, of course, the primary directive of all national security reporters. But trying to gain access to such secrets puts the scoop-hungry Washington press corps in a position of perpetual subordination and supplication in relation to government intelligence agencies. Reporters offend their official sources at their peril, for they may be cut off from the morsels of leaked intelligence that are these beat journalists’ specialty.

	Which is why the CIA no longer needs to recruit reporters and put them on its payroll. Instead, the agency simply relies on finely tuned relationships with a select group of elite reporters who are utterly dependent on the national security state for their professional survival.

	As the radical scholar Peter Dale Scott puts it: “The CIA nowadays doesn’t really have to buy journalists. [They] step into line voluntarily.” 


Taking a less extreme stance than his fake news counterparts, Schou says the CIA is not paying journalists outright, but manipulating them (the CIA disagrees https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/vol-61-no-1/pdfs/io-bookshelf.pdf#page=5):


https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/57hot4/hi_reddit_im_nicholas_schou_author_of_spooked_a/d8s2jk1/
	Mainstream media is kind of an annoying construct, as is alternative and/or new media. My book focuses both on what we would traditionally refer to as the elite media: the NYTimes, WashPost, etc, 


https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/57hot4/hi_reddit_im_nicholas_schou_author_of_spooked_a/d8sr6vy/
	The CIA has people working undercover in various occupations both here in the US and abroad, but those people, at least in the U.S., aren't reporters. Plame was working undercover, but not as a reporter. The sad thing is that the CIA doesn't need to recruit US reporters as paid agents, because as my book demonstrates, that mission has already been accomplished.


https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/57hot4/hi_reddit_im_nicholas_schou_author_of_spooked_a/d8sr6vy/

	NicholasSchou: The CIA has people working undercover in various occupations both here in the US and abroad, but those people, at least in the U.S., aren't reporters. Plame was working undercover, but not as a reporter. The sad thing is that the CIA doesn't need to recruit US reporters as paid agents, because as my book demonstrates, that mission has already been accomplished.

	Q: How can you prove such an assertion when such operations are classified secrets?

	NicholasSchou: To repeat: It has been illegal for the CIA to directly employ domestic journalists ever since the 1970s. Even assuming the CIA was willing to break the law, it would be a ridiculous thing for the agency to do given the fact that, AS MY BOOK WHICH YOU SHOULD READ DEMONSTRATES, the CIA doesn't need to pay reporters, because reporters do the agency's bidding simply to promote their own careers.


(also FWIW I think there probably are some journalists at least helping the CIA: https://twitter.com/ThisWeekABC/status/752132875051347968 although that's besides the point I'm trying to make right now...)

But what's interesting is his prediction that the CIA will plant suspicious, poorly-sourced anti-Kremlin articles on the Washington Post:


https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/57hot4/hi_reddit_im_nicholas_schou_author_of_spooked_a/d8s3hb2/
	I find it less difficult to generalize about individual reporters than the outlets where they work. At the NYT, James Risen, Matt Apuzzo and Adam Goldman are very dogged and willing to lose sources or fight editors to get important stories into print. But the NYT as an institution completely failed to do its job in publishing the Judith Miller stories on Iraqi WMDs. Same goes for the Washington Post. That newspaper is uniquely embedded in the U.S. national security state, and while it gets a lot of great scoops, it has also allowed itself to consistently act as a tool of Langley et al. The Intercept is starting to live up to its potential as a source of aggressive reporting, and Jason Leopold at Vice News is a one-man factory of great public records-based reporting, so much so that the FBI dubbed him the "FOIA Terrorist."


https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/57hot4/hi_reddit_im_nicholas_schou_author_of_spooked_a/d8s1oew/
	Q: What do you think they might be doing as far as the current election cycle is concerned?

	NicholasSchou: The CIA and White House are extremely upset about the possibility that the Russian government (possibly in cahoots with Wikileaks) is trying to manipulate the outcome of the U.S. elections. This has led to very prominently placed articles in the Washington Post and other elite news media outlets alleging that this is happening, although no clear link to the Kremlin has been cited. While it may be true, the American public is simply being told to believe this via newspaper articles that fail to quote even a single intelligence source speaking on the record about it, which is suspicious.


(Schou has some back-up form Greenwald, others:


https://theintercept.com/2016/12/10/anonymous-leaks-to-the-washpost-about-the-cias-russia-beliefs-are-no-substitute-for-evidence/
	Anonymous Leaks to the WashPost About the CIA’s Russia Beliefs Are No Substitute for Evidence
	Glenn Greenwald


https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/01/07/glenn_greenwald_to_tucker_carlson_washington_post_pushing_fake_news_on_russia.html
	Glenn Greenwald To Tucker Carlson: Washington Post Pushing Fake News On Russia


https://www.rt.com/op-edge/388842-washington-post-russia-trump/
 	The Washington Post: America's #1 source of mass hysteria 

	The most widely circulated publication in Washington DC, a weapon of mass distribution, has sparked a political firestorm with an unsubstantiated report leveled against - any guesses? - President Donald Trump and his supposed bromance with Putin's Russia. 


http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/russia-washington-post-story-yet-another-fake/article/2623184
	Russia: Washington Post story 'yet another fake'

	The Washington Post reported on Monday that the revelation put a source of intelligence on the Islamic State at risk.

	Maria Zakharova, spokeswoman for the Russian foreign ministry, on Facebook on Tuesday described the reports as "yet another fake.")



But you might remember (https://pastebin.com/ar4GWrRT, https://pastebin.com/z49g6KKe) that there *have* been suspicious, poorly-sourced anti-Kremlin (and in particular, anti-Trump) articles on the Washington Post:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/trump-revealed-highly-classified-information-to-russian-foreign-minister-and-ambassador/2017/05/15/530c172a-3960-11e7-9e48-c4f199710b69_story.html
	Trump revealed highly classified information to Russian foreign minister and ambassador

	By Greg Miller and Greg Jaffe


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/russian-ambassador-told-moscow-that-kushner-wanted-secret-communications-channel-with-kremlin/2017/05/26/520a14b4-422d-11e7-9869-bac8b446820a_story.html
	Russian ambassador told Moscow that Kushner wanted secret communications channel with Kremlin 

	By Ellen Nakashima, Adam Entous and Greg Miller


Miller and Jaffe hit the reliable markers of playing-down the Russians spies and writing hit pieces on McMaster:


http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/06/28/AR2010062805227.html
	FBI arrests 10 accused of working as Russian spies

	...Whether it succeeded was unclear Monday. Federal law enforcement officials portrayed their operation as a spectacular counterintelligence success that uncovered a group of spies capable of doing great damage to U.S. national security. "I can't remember a case where we've been able to arrest 10 intelligence officers from a foreign country in one fell swoop," one official said. "This network in the United States has now been completely compromised."

	But other officials said the Russian network appears to have accomplished little, if any, of its espionage aims, even though some of the suspects had lived in this country for up to two decades. 

	...it is unclear whether the information was passed to the headquarters of Russian foreign intelligence

	...Staff writers Maria Glod, Greg Miller and Mary Beth Sheridan and staff researchers Meg Smith and Julie Tate contributed to this report. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/white-house-offers-shifting-explanations-of-trumps-disclosures-to-russians/2017/05/16/23c6c456-3a4b-11e7-8854-21f359183e8c_story.html
 	White House offers shifting explanations of Trump’s disclosures to Russians 
	By Greg Miller and Ashley Parker

	Trump also enlisted his national security adviser, H.R. McMaster, to help contain the fallout from the latest damaging revelations about the administration’s relationship with Russia. Trump revealed the classified intelligence in a White House meeting with Russia’s foreign minister and ambassador one day after firing FBI Director James B. Comey over frustration with the bureau’s investigation of any ties between Trump associates and Russian officials.

	Speaking to reporters at the White House, McMaster refused to say whether Trump had shared classified information with the representatives from Moscow, falling back on a refrain that Trump’s disclosures were “wholly appropriate.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/a-new-role-for-mcmaster-trumps-shield/2017/05/16/c49bdcd0-3a60-11e7-a058-ddbb23c75d82_story.html
 	A new role for McMaster: Trump’s shield 

	By Greg Jaffe

	...The biggest burden for McMaster, though, may be own words as captured in “Dereliction of Duty.” “The president was lying, and he expected the Chiefs to lie as well or, at least, to withhold the whole truth,” McMaster wrote in the book’s epilogue, referring to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “Although the president should not have placed the Chiefs in that position, the flag officers should not have tolerated it when they had.”


And Adam Entous seems to be a fan of the "dodgy dossier" (which might be another good marker of someone being a Russian propagandist, considering it was shown to be "dodgy" almost immediately after it was leaked):


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/fbi-obtained-fisa-warrant-to-monitor-former-trump-adviser-carter-page/2017/04/11/620192ea-1e0e-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html
	By Ellen Nakashima, Devlin Barrett and Adam Entous

	While there, Page allegedly met with Igor Sechin, a Putin confidant and chief executive of the energy company Rosneft, according to a dossier compiled by a former British intelligence officer and cited at a congressional hearing by Rep. Adam B. Schiff (Calif.), the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee. Officials said some of the information in the dossier has been verified by U.S. intelligence agencies, and some of it hasn’t, while other parts are unlikely to ever be proved or disproved.

	On Tuesday, Page dismissed what he called “the dodgy dossier” of false allegations.


https://twitter.com/adamentous/status/836690571330785281
	FBI wanted to pay British spy who penned Trump dossier, a sign of his credibility as a source https://wpo.st/bXPe2  @thamburger @postroz


He also sounded like he took the dossier seriously when he told MSNBC about the "mysterious letter" that drove the reporting on his sketchy Kushner back-channel story (about 12 and a half minutes in http://www.msnbc.com/rachel-maddow/watch/kusher-sought-kremlin-back-channel-via-russian-ambassador-report-954580547991).


Now if the Russians want to discredit the CIA and ostensibly CIA-affiliated journalists, they can do better than having Glenn Greenwald yell at them. Russian intelligence are famous for their agent provocateurs, who would infiltrate groups they don't like and discredit them:


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/books-and-monographs/okhrana-the-paris-operations-of-the-russian-imperial-police/5474-1.html
	Agent provocateur is a French term, but the Russians perfected the art. In fact, the primary purpose of the Foreign Bureau's provocations was to scare the French into taking action against Russian radicals and cooperating with the Okhrana. The most notorious provocation occurred in Paris in 1890, when Arkadiy Harting (a.k.a. Abraham Gekel'man or Landezen) organized a well-armed team of bombthrowers and then betrayed them to the Paris police. These heavily publicized arrests helped persuade the French public of the dangers posed by Russian revolutionaries in France. The episode also convinced officials in St. Petersburg that republican France could get tough on Russian radicals and make a good ally. To some extent, at least, this helped diminish mutual suspicions and created an atmosphere on both sides conducive to negotiation of the Franco-Russian alliance of 1891.


https://etd.ohiolink.edu/!etd.send_file?accession=ohiou1398772391
	According to one of Dzerzhinskii’s lieutenants, Martyn Latsis, the first Chekist leader strictly prohibited the use of agent provocateurs when the Cheka first formed. Yet, despite this order, the Cheka quickly developed the same tradecraft of provocation to penetrated counter-revolutionary organizations; in fact, the first known successful case of Soviet provocation occurred as early as 1918. Dzerzhinskii dispatched agents to penetrate a Petrograd-based counter-revolutionary organizationthat recruited soldiers for General Alexei Kaledin, who led the White forces in Don territory. The agents, who posed as former Tsarist officers wanting to join the opposition movement, quickly penetrated the underground organization and by February the following year, exposed the organization, resulting in the mass arrest of about four thousand counter-revolutionary activists.

	Like the other methods the Soviets employed, the Cheka expanded the use of provocation to penetrate foreign threats as well. The most sensationalized case of early provocation, the so-called ‘Lockhart Plot,’ involved the former British consul-general Robert B. Lockhart. Lockhart, who had been stationed at the British embassy prior to the revolution, returned to Russia with unofficial intentions to persuade the new government to continue Russia’s war with Germany. The mission, obviously, failed. Lockhart quickly changed his views on the Bolsheviks and looked at the new government with distain; by the spring of 1918, Lockhart actively involved himself with anti-Bolshevik forces and monetarily supported (over ten million rubles) counterrevolutionary activities in Moscow. After suspecting Lockhart’s participation in the anti-Bolshevik underground, Dzerzhinskii assigned two Latvian agents provocateurs in June 1918 to penetrate the organization. By 31 August, the Chekist leader had compiled enough evidence and ordered the arrest of Lockhart and his other conspirators, which included French and American agents as well. Soviet leaders hailed this operation as monumental success against the capitalistic west and the case remained somewhat of a legend in KGB history.

	Foreigners quickly observed the Cheka’s reliance on agent provocateurs as a revival and expansion of the Okhrana’s system. During the height of provocation in prerevolutionary Russia, Vladimir Burtsev, a Russian émigré living in Paris, dedicated his life to exposing Tsarist agents. Burtsev became famous after he single-handedly exposed Evno Azev as a provocateur(See Chapter 1),for which he gained the nickname ‘Sherlock Holmes’ of the revolutionary movement. Burtsev published and edited multiple periodicals criticizing the Imperial Russia and the repressive methods the Okhrana used against the revolutionary movement, especially the technique of provocation. At the time, Bolshevik revolutionaries hailed Burtsev as a hero. However, as events unfolded and the Bolshevik government employed the same methods, Burtsev turned critical of his onetime co-conspirators. In an article published in 1927, Burtsev condemned the Bolshevik government: “These men are now in power, and their attitude towards provocation has radically changed. They have ‘improved’ the former Secret Police, replacing it by their Che-Ka or G.P.U., which has surpassed the former by its cruelty and treachery. If the Secret Police of the old days possessed itsAzefs and Zubatovs, the present government of the Soviets has given Russia super-Azefs and super-Zubatovs.”


Generally, being an agent provocateur has three steps:

1. infiltrate you
2. convince you to do something stupid (or failing that, do something stupid themselves)
3. make you look bad 


For example, it really looks like Miller and Jaffe's "Trump leaked classified information [and it was a disaster worst ever code-red etc.]" story is baloney. But what if there were hard-evidence that the story was over-played? (And why is Putin grinning so much?):


http://abcnews.go.com/International/putin-jokes-release-record-trumps-russian-meeting-congress/story?id=47459199
	 Russian President Vladimir Putin poked fun at reports that President Trump had shared classified intelligence with Russian officials during a White House meeting last week, saying if they were true, the information had not been passed on to him.

	Putin, trying to hide a smile, told reporters he had already discussed the accusations with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who attended the Oval Office meeting with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak.

	“It was necessary to issue him a reprimand, a rebuke,” Putin said of Lavrov, “because he didn’t share these secrets. Not with me, not with the Russia’s intelligence services. That--that’s very bad from his side.”

	Lavrov, who was in attendance at the press conference in Sochi, Russia, laughed in response.

	Putin, apparently joking, also said that Russia would be willing to provide a record of the meeting to Congress. He used a Russian word that could be translated as “recording” or “transcript.”


If such evidence were released, it would discredit the Washington Post and by extension the CIA (in the eyes of some), thanks to the efforts of Schou, Greenwald, and fake news sites tying them together. It would also make Schou and Greenwald look like prophets, further adding credibility to their claims that the CIA is influencing the media to blame Russia and undermine Trump. (You can see a similar effect with forgeries like the Protocols, Tanaka Memorial, and to some extent the "dirty dossier," where Russian intelligence can try to make some of the documents' claims come true so that people believe the rest). It may very well be that Jaffe, Miller, and others intended to overplay their Trump-Russia stories with the aim to discredit the Washington Post, the CIA, and the idea of Trump-Russia connection itself, and McMaster intended to counter that (and it should be said, that doesn't mean everything they've reported is false--a smart thing to do would be to mix the truth with lies and discredit it all in one fell-swoop).

One can imagine that if something like this played-out, Trump supporters would be very upset, every story tying Trump to Russia would be called into question, and public trust in the mainstream media and the CIA would take a hit--a lot of good news for Russian intelligence.

What I suspect the Russians will do is take this idea and turn it up to 11. That's where Comey comes in.

From what I can guess from Russia's propaganda, the final act of their script is a showdown between Trump and the "deep state," with Comey representing the deep state:


https://www.infowars.com/cnns-bash-admits-comey-memo-is-deep-state-revenge-against-trump/
	CNN’s Bash Admits Comey Memo is “Deep State” Revenge Against Trump
	They "know how to get back, even if you're the president"


http://beforeitsnews.com/alternative/2017/05/firing-james-comey-may-fuel-donald-trumps-deep-state-troubles-rather-than-end-them-3509904.html
	Firing James Comey May Fuel Donald Trump’s ‘Deep State’ Troubles Rather Than End Them

	The president and his advisers hoped that the FBI director’s dismissal would end their Russiagate ordeal, but the work of the “deep state” is just beginning.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-05-24/comey-friend-reportedly-warns-trump-if-i-were-you-id-be-scared
	Comey 'Friend' Warns Trump "If I Were You, I'd Be Scared"


https://consortiumnews.com/2017/05/10/watergate-redux-or-deep-state-coup/
	Watergate Redux or ‘Deep State’ Coup?

	...As the principal intelligence holdover from the Obama administration, Comey assumed an essential role in this operation. It would be up to the FBI to secure the financial records from Trump and his associates that could provide a foundation for at least suspicions of a sinister relationship between them and Russia.

	...Yet, despite what Page and other Trump advisers caught up in the Russia-gate probe may hope, the prospects that Comey’s firing will end their ordeal are dim. The near certainty is that whatever Obama and his intelligence chiefs set in motion last year is just beginning.


https://www.infowars.com/deep-state-pushes-coup-against-trump-over-comey-firing/
	Deep State Pushes Coup Against Trump Over Comey Firing
	Foreign Policy once again promotes COG rhetoric

	The shadow government is once again pushing its months-old agenda to overthrow Trump, this time using Tuesday’s firing of FBI Director James Comey as the casus belli.


You can see the mainstream media playing up the "Trump versus Comey" showdown as well:


https://www.lawfareblog.com/nightmare-scenario-trump-fires-comey-one-man-who-would-stand-him
	The Nightmare Scenario: Trump Fires Comey, the One Man Who Would Stand Up to Him
	By Benjamin Wittes, Susan Hennessey 


http://www.cnbc.com/2017/05/10/trumps-firing-of-comey-endangers-his-entire-presidency.html
	Trump's firing of Comey endangers his entire presidency

	- President Donald Trump has made an enormous bet that takes the entire Republican agenda hostage and could even shorten his time in office.

	- Trump's decision represents a tipping point for Republican lawmakers.


https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-06-01/if-trump-tries-to-silence-comey-expect-sparks-to-fly
	If Trump Tries to Silence Comey, Expect Sparks to Fly


http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/05/11/trump-comey-grandstander-showboat.html
	Trump: Comey a 'grandstander,' 'showboat'


http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/334182-comey-was-disgusted-by-hug-with-trump
	Comey was ‘disgusted’ by hug with Trump


http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/17/politics/trump-vs-comey-credibility/index.html
	Trump vs. Comey: Who will America trust?


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/12/opinion/can-we-get-back-to-sally-yates-for-a-minute.html
	Can We Get Back to Sally Yates for a Minute?


http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/12/politics/donald-trump-james-comey-twitter/index.html
	Donald Trump threatened James Comey via Twitter. This is not a test.


http://www.thedailybeast.com/trump-officials-on-comey-memo-dont-see-how-trump-isnt-completely-fcked
	Trump Officials on Comey Memo: ‘Don’t See How Trump Isn’t Completely F*cked’


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-39900199
	Trump/Comey: What's this week's political firestorm actually about?

	At well over 2m tall and serving as head of the FBI as the US president sparred openly with the agency, James Comey was, until Tuesday, a significant figure in all senses of the word.

	His downfall has caused a seismic reaction in Washington that is continuing to reverberate, and it appears the dust will not settle for some time.


And from what I gather from their intentions, they also really want Trump to win; or, maybe more accurately, the "deep state" to loose--badly.

But Comey has already set himself up to lose.

Comey has made himself the star witness for an obstruction of justice case against Trump, either for firing Comey to squash the Russia probe or for pressuring Comey to drop a criminal investigation into Flynn.

First, as Comey once said, for someone to be guilty he or she needs to have acted with intent (at least in this case http://www3.ce9.uscourts.gov/jury-instructions/node/590):


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	COMEY: ...ignorance of the law is no excuse, but here’s the distinction. You have to have general criminal intent. You don’t need to know what particular statute you’re violating, but you must be aware of the generally wrongful nature of your conduct…


So it's worth taking a guess at what exactly has been going on in Trump's head:


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/31/us/politics/donald-trump-russia-hacking.html
	Trump Promises a Revelation on Hacking

	By MAGGIE HABERMAN
	DEC. 31, 2016

	President-elect Donald J. Trump, expressing lingering skepticism about intelligence assessments of Russian interference in the election, said on Saturday evening that he knew “things that other people don’t know” about the hacking, and that the information would be revealed “on Tuesday or Wednesday.”

	Speaking to a handful of reporters outside his Palm Beach, Fla., club, Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump cast his declarations of doubt as an effort to seek the truth.

	“I just want them to be sure because it’s a pretty serious charge,” Mr. Trump said of the intelligence agencies. “If you look at the weapons of mass destruction, that was a disaster, and they were wrong,” he added, referring to intelligence cited by the George W. Bush administration to support its march to war in 2003. “So I want them to be sure,” the president-elect said. “I think it’s unfair if they don’t know.”

	He added: “And I know a lot about hacking. And hacking is a very hard thing to prove. So it could be somebody else. And I also know things that other people don’t know, and so they cannot be sure of the situation.”

	When asked what he knew that others did not, Mr. Trump demurred, saying only, “You’ll find out on Tuesday or Wednesday.”

	Mr. Trump, who does not use email, also advised people to avoid computers when dealing with delicate material. “It’s very important, if you have something really important, write it out and have it delivered by courier, the old-fashioned way, because I’ll tell you what, no computer is safe,” Mr. Trump said.

	“I don’t care what they say, no computer is safe,” he added. “I have a boy who’s 10 years old; he can do anything with a computer. You want something to really go without detection, write it out and have it sent by courier.”

	The comments on Saturday were a departure from a statement that Mr. Trump issued through transition officials last week, in which he said that it was time for people to “move on” from the hacking issue but that he would be briefed on the matter by intelligence officials early in the new year.

	...Mr. Trump, who has sought a warmer relationship with Mr. Putin, has repeatedly scoffed at the notion that Russia was behind the hacking, a stance at odds with members of his own party. At one point, Mr. Trump declared that the hacking may have been the work of “someone sitting on their bed weighing 400 pounds.”


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/816452807024840704?lang=en
	The "Intelligence" briefing on so-called "Russian hacking" was delayed until Friday, perhaps more time needed to build a case. Very strange!
	5:14 PM - 3 Jan 2017 


http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/312609-trumps-delayed-meeting-was-always-scheduled-for-friday-report
	Report: Trump's 'delayed' intelligence meeting was always scheduled for Friday
	01/03/17


http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/schumer-warns-trump-intel-officials-have-six-ways-from-sunday-at-getting-back-at-you/article/2610823
	Schumer warns Trump: Intel officials 'have six ways from Sunday at getting back at you'
	by Daniel Chaitin
	Jan 3, 2016

	The new leader of Democrats in the Senate says Donald Trump is being "really dumb" for picking a fight with intelligence officials, suggesting they have ways to strike back, after the president-elect speculated Tuesday that his "so-called" briefing about Russian cyberattacks had been delayed in order to build a case.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/investigation-of-russian-hacking-is-a-witch-hunt-trump-says/2017/01/06/cf330600-d430-11e6-a783-cd3fa950f2fd_story.html
 	Investigation of Russian hacking is a ‘witch hunt,’ Trump says 

	By David Nakamura January 6

	As U.S. intelligence officials have raised increasing alarm this week over Russia’s meddling in the presidential election, Donald Trump has sought to recast the investigation as a matter of old-fashioned politics rather than national security.

	The president-elect has reacted to mounting pressure to take stronger steps against Russia not only by trying to discredit the intelligence community but also by suggesting that the intense Washington focus on the issue is being driven by political rivals still stung by his electoral victory.

	“This is a political witch hunt,” Trump said Friday in an interview with the New York Times ahead of a private briefing from U.S. officials on a classified 50-page report, ordered by President Obama, on Russia’s role in the election.


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/read-james-comeys-prepared-statement-thursdays-senate-hearing/
	Statement for the Record

	Senate Select Committee on Intelligence

	James B. Comey

	...January 6 Briefing

	I first met then- President-Elect Trump on Friday, January 6

	...I remained alone with the President-Elect to brief him on some personally sensitive aspects of the information assembled during the assessment.

	The IC leadership thought it important, for a variety of reasons, to alert the incoming President to the existence of this material, even though it was salacious and unverified.

	...When the FBI develops reason to believe an American has been targeted for recruitment by a foreign power or is covertly acting as an agent of the foreign power, the FBI will “open an investigation” on that American and use legal authorities to try to learn more about the nature of any relationship with the foreign power so it can be disrupted.

	In that context, prior to the January 6 meeting, I discussed with the FBI’s leadership team whether I should be prepared to assure President-Elect Trump that we were not investigating him personally. That was true; we did not have an open counter-intelligence case on him. We agreed I should do so if circumstances warranted. During our one-on-one meeting at Trump Tower, based on President-Elect Trump’s reaction to the briefing and without him directly asking the question, I offered that assurance.


https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/jan/06/donald-trump-russia-hacking-meeting-intelligence-officials
	Spencer Ackerman in New York and Julian Borger and David Smith in Washington

	Friday 6 January 2017 13.49 EST 

	Donald Trump struck a conciliatory tone with US intelligence officials after meeting with their leadership, but did not publicly support their conclusion that Russia interfered in the 2016 US presidential contest.

	In a statement issued ahead of the release of a declassified version of the intelligence assessment, Trump said he had “tremendous respect for the work and service done by the men and women of this community”, describing his meeting with James Clapper, the director of national intelligence, and other senior intelligence officials, as “constructive”.

	His comments came after an extraordinary public feud between Trump and leaders of the intelligence apparatus he will soon control. However, Trump discussed the hack and leak of embarrassing Democratic National Committee data in generic terms, suggesting he had not moved away from his earlier statements casting attribution for the data breach as unknowable.

	“Russia, China, other countries, outside groups and people are consistently trying to break through the cyber infrastructure of our governmental institutions, businesses and organizations,” Trump said in a Friday afternoon statement, and underlined “there was absolutely no effect on the outcome of the election including the fact that there was no tampering whatsoever with voting machines”.

	...Trump and his deputies have treated discussion of potential foreign interference in a US election as an effort merely to delegitimize his presidency before it begins. 


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/12/trump-team-russia-cia-intel-election-232460
	Trump team rejects intel agencies' claims of Russian meddling
	12/09/2016

	Donald Trump is rejecting official assessments that Russia interfered with the U.S. election — reportedly to help him win the presidency — by comparing intelligence agencies' latest analyses to the past flawed claims that led to the Iraq war.

	"These are the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction," the Trump transition team said in a statement late Friday. 


https://web.archive.org/web/20170110221529/http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/10/politics/donald-trump-intelligence-report-russia/index.html
	Intel chiefs presented Trump with claims of Russian efforts to compromise him

	By Evan Perez, Jim Sciutto and Jake Tapper and Carl Bernstein, CNN

	Updated 5:09 PM ET, Tue January 10, 2017

	Classified documents presented last week to President Obama and President-elect Trump included allegations that Russian operatives claim to have compromising personal and financial information about Mr. Trump, multiple US officials with direct knowledge of the briefings tell CNN.

	The allegations were presented in a two-page synopsis that was appended to a report on Russian interference in the 2016 election. The allegations came, in part, from memos compiled by a former British intelligence operative, whose past work US intelligence officials consider credible.

	...One reason the nation's intelligence chiefs took the extraordinary step of including the synopsis in the briefing documents was to make the President-elect aware that such allegations involving him are circulating among intelligence agencies, senior members of Congress and other government officials in Washington, multiple sources tell CNN.

	...One high level administration official told CNN, "I have a sense the outgoing administration and intelligence community is setting down the pieces so this must be investigated seriously and run down. I think [the] concern was to be sure that whatever information was out there is put into the system so it is evaluated as it should be and acted upon as necessary."


http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/donald-trump-sex-allegations-russia-hacking-intelligence-report-perverted-moscow-a7520916.html
	Donald Trump Russia claims: Leaked documents allege Moscow holds compromising dossier on President-elect

	The President-elect has dismissed the allegations as 'fake news'

	Wednesday 11 January 2017


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/819164172781060096
	Intelligence agencies should never have allowed this fake news to "leak" into the public. One last shot at me.Are we living in Nazi Germany?
	4:48 AM - 11 Jan 2017


http://abcnews.go.com/US/trump-odds-intel-chief-characterization-conversation-russia-report/story?id=44723926
	Trump at Odds With Intel Chief on Characterization of Conversation About Russia Report

	...Trump railed against the intelligence community in a tweet earlier Wednesday, suggesting that the IC "allowed" the document to leak.

	...Trump conceded today that Russia was probably responsible for the hacking after casting doubt on the IC's assessment.


http://time.com/4632743/james-clapper-donald-trump-russia/
	U.S. Intelligence Chief James Clapper to Donald Trump: We Didn't Leak Russia Documents


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/11/us/politics/trump-press-conference-transcript.html
	JAN. 11, 2017

	QUESTION: But why did you spend weeks undermining U.S. intelligence community before simply getting the facts and then making a public statement?

	TRUMP: Well, I think it’s pretty sad when intelligence reports get leaked out to the press. I think it’s pretty sad. First of all, it’s illegal. You know, these are — these are classified and certified meetings and reports.

	I’ll tell you what does happen. I have many meetings with intelligence. And every time I meet, people are reading about it. Somebody’s leaking it out. So, there’s — maybe it’s my office. Maybe in my office because I have a lot of people, a lot of great people. Maybe it’s them. And what I did is I said I won’t tell anybody. I’m going to have a meeting and I won’t tell anybody about my meeting with intelligence.

	And what happened is I had my meeting. Nobody knew, not even Rhona, my executive assistant for years, she didn’t know — I didn’t tell her. Nobody knew. The meeting was had, the meeting was over, they left. And immediately the word got out that I had a meeting.

	So, I don’t want that — I don’t want that. It’s very unfair to the country. It’s very unfair to our country; what’s happened. That report should have never — first of all, it shouldn’t have been printed because it’s not worth the paper it’s written on. And I thank the New York Times for saying that.

	I thank a lot of different people for saying that. But, I will tell you, that should never, ever happen. OK.


Apparently, Trump honestly think the USIC is out to get him and suspects they leaked the "dirty dossier." Trump reacts strongly to the allegations in the dossier.


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/819520238446411777
	James Clapper called me yesterday to denounce the false and fictitious report that was illegally circulated. Made up, phony facts.Too bad!
	4:23 AM - 12 Jan 2017 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/post-partisan/wp/2017/01/13/comey-should-resign/?utm_term=.8f73c665d86b
	Comey should resign
	By Ed Rogers January 13

	The Wall Street Journal says President-elect Donald Trump's incoming administration should fire James Comey if the FBI director does not resign.


http://thehill.com/policy/national-security/fbi/314144-wall-street-journal-fbi-head-should-resign
	Wall Street Journal: Comey should resign
	By Mark Hensch - 01/13/17 10:04 AM EST 


http://www.msnbc.com/am-joy/watch/james-comey-should-he-resign-855064131798
	AM Joy 1/14/17
	James Comey: Should he resign?

	Joy Reid and her guests discuss the growing calls for FBI Director James Comey to resign following accusations that he acted perhaps unwisely and possibly with bias related to actions that may have impacted the election.


http://time.com/4635505/bernie-sanders-james-comey-fbi/
	Bernie Sanders: FBI Director James Comey's Resignation 'Would Not Be a Bad Thing'
	Jan 15, 2017


http://thehill.com/policy/national-security/314391-pence-on-whether-trump-has-confidence-in-comey-youll-have-to-ask-him
	Pence dodges on Trump's confidence in Comey: 'You'll have to ask him'
	01/15/17 09:39 AM EST 


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/week-transcript-15-17-reince-priebus-sen-bernie/story?id=44778012&cid=clicksource_903_null_vert_hed
	Jan 15, 2017

	 STEPHANOPOULOS: We just heard Bernie Sanders say he thinks that FBI Director James Comey should think about stepping down. President-elect Trump was very tough on the FBI director during the campaign, said he disagreed with his final decision on Hillary Clinton, repeated again this week that he thinks Hillary Clinton was guilty as hell.

	Does he have confidence in FBI Director Comey?

	PRIEBUS: Yes, he has confidence in Director Comey. We have had a great relationship with him over the last several weeks. He's extremely competent.

	But, look, his term extends for some time yet. There's no plans at the moment in changing that term. And we've enjoyed our relationship with him and find him to be extraordinarily competent. 


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/brennan-rips-trump-tweets-russia/
	Outgoing CIA chief rips into Trump on Russia threat

 	January 15, 2017 


http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/314436-trump-on-outgoing-cia-director-was-this-the-leaker-of-fake-news
	Trump on outgoing CIA director: ‘Was this the leaker of Fake News?’

	01/15/17 08:47 PM EST


http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/01/17/cias-brennan-rejects-donald-trumps-criticism-says-dossier-didnt-come-from-intel-community.html
	CIA's Brennan rejects Donald Trump's criticism, says dossier didn't come from intel community

	Published January 17, 2017

	The day after the dossier's contents were published by BuzzFeed, Trump posted on Twitter that intelligence agencies "should never have allowed this fake news to 'leak'" before asking "Are we living in Nazi Germany?"

	Brennan was reportedly indignant that Trump attacked his fellow spies, according to The Journal. He mentioned Trumps tweet on Nazi Germany in particular.

	“Tell the families of those 117 CIA officers who are forever memorialized on our wall of honor that their loved ones who gave their lives were akin to Nazis,” Brennan said. “Tell the CIA officers who are serving in harm’s way right now and their families who are worried about them that they are akin to Nazi Germany. I found that to be very repugnant, and I will forever stand up for the integrity and patriotism of my officers who have done much over the years to sacrifice for their fellow citizens.”


http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2017/jan/18/donald-trump-to-reform-us-intelligence-community/
	Donald Trump to reform intelligence

	 By Bill Gertz - - Wednesday, January 18, 2017

	One national security priority of the incoming administration of President-elect Donald Trumpis to reform the heavily bureaucratized and, to some critics, politicized U.S. intelligence community.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/us-counterintelligence-officials-are-examining-possible-ties-between-russia-and-trump-associates/2017/01/19/7e10f31c-debd-11e6-918c-99ede3c8cafa_story.html
	U.S. counterintelligence officials are examining possible ties between Russia and Trump associates
	By Ellen Nakashima and Greg Miller
	January 19

	U.S. counterintelligence officials are sifting through intercepted communications and financial data as part of a wider look at possible ties between the Russian government and associates of President-elect Donald Trump, officials said.

	...FBI Director James B. Comey has been chastised by Democratic lawmakers for refusing to even acknowledge that it was investigating alleged links between Trump or his associates and the Kremlin.

	Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, has been under FBI scrutiny for some time, including for allegations of illegal financial dealings in Ukraine, current and former U.S. officials said. Manafort has done business in Russia and Ukraine.


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/19/us/politics/trump-russia-associates-investigation.html
	Intercepted Russian Communications Part of Inquiry Into Trump Associates

	By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT, MATTHEW ROSENBERG, ADAM GOLDMAN and MATT APUZZO
	JAN. 19, 2017

	American law enforcement and intelligence agencies are examining intercepted communications and financial transactions as part of a broad investigation into possible links between Russian officials and associates of President-elect Donald J. Trump, including his former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, current and former senior American officials said.

	The continuing counterintelligence investigation means that Mr. Trump will take the oath of office on Friday with his associates under investigation and after the intelligence agencies concluded that the Russian government had worked to help elect him. As president, Mr. Trump will oversee those agencies and have the authority to redirect or stop at least some of these efforts.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/01/21/trump-to-visit-cia-headquarters-after-sharply-criticizing-the-intelligence-community/
	Trump visits CIA headquarters after sharply criticizing the intelligence community
	By Philip Rucker and Greg Miller
	January 21

	President Trump visited CIA's headquarters in Northern Virginia on Saturday afternoon, making a gesture of goodwill after he harshly criticized the intelligence community in the run-up to his inauguration.

	“There is nobody that feels stronger about the intelligence community and the CIA than Donald Trump,” said Trump.


http://thehill.com/policy/national-security/intelligence/315483-trump-blames-intel-community-feud-on-dishonest-media
	Trump blames intel community 'feud' on ‘dishonest media’
	By Max Greenwood - 01/21/17 04:51 PM EST 


https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4650720/president-trump-tells-cia-us-may-another-chance-get-iraqi-oil
	January 21, 2017 | Clip Of President Trump Remarks at the Central Intelligence Agency
	President Trump Tells CIA U.S. May Have Another Chance to Get Iraqi Oil

	Speaking to employees at CIA headquarters in Langley, Virginia, President Trump said the U.S. should have kept the oil when it left Iraq, saying it would have prevented ISIS. He then suggested, "Maybe we'll have another chance."


http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/315568-trump-greets-comey-at-white-house-hes-become-more-famous-than-me
	Trump greets Comey: 'He's become more famous than me'
	01/22/17

	President Donald Trump greeted FBI Director James Comey during a reception for law enforcement at the White House on Sunday afternoon.

	During the event, the president singled out Comey, who approached the president, shook his hand and gave him a hug.

	"He's become more famous than me," the president joked.

	...The president had in the past attacked Comey and the intelligence community, accusing it of leaking an unverified dossier alleging Russia had compromising information on Trump.

	The president also thanked the law enforcement officers for doing such a good job during his inauguration.

	He said the event had been "such a success, a safety success."

	Trump went to the Central Intelligence Agency headquarters on Saturday, where he blasted reporters and affirmed his support for the nation’s intelligence agencies.

	On Sunday, he tweeted that he had a "great" meeting at the CIA headquarters with "amazing people," calling it a "win."


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/24/us/politics/trump-comey-fbi-director-.html
	Trump Is Said to Keep James Comey as F.B.I. Director

	By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and ADAM GOLDMANJAN. 24, 2017 

	WASHINGTON — The F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, told his top agents from around the country that he had been asked by President Trump to stay on the job running the federal government’s top law enforcement agency, according to people familiar with the matter.

	...When Mr. Comey and the president-elect met at Trump Tower for the first time this month for an intelligence briefing, Mr. Trump told the F.B.I. director that he hoped he would remain in his position, according to people briefed on the matter. And Mr. Trump’s aides have made it clear to Mr. Comey that the president does not plan to ask him to leave, these people said.


Trump continued to fight with the USIC, but after the Washington Post and NY Times reported that Trump's campaign was under investigation, he abruptly changed his tune. Trump brushed-off calls to fire Comey and acted friendly to him in public. Also, Trump might honestly think the CIA wants "another chance" to "get Iraq's oil."


http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/23/politics/flynn-russia-calls-investigation/
	US investigating Flynn calls with Russian diplomat

	By Evan Perez and Jim Sciutto, CNN

	Mon January 23, 2017

	US investigators are scrutinizing late December calls between Mike Flynn, President Donald Trump's national security adviser, and Russia's ambassador to the US as part of a broader counterintelligence investigation of Russian activities in the US, law enforcement and intelligence officials told CNN.

	The calls were captured by routine US eavesdropping targeting the Russian diplomats, according to the intelligence and law enforcement officials. But the officials said some of the content of the conversation raised enough potential concerns that investigators are still looking into the discussions, amid a broader concern about Russian intelligence-gathering activities in the United States. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: I had two in-person meetings and one phone call with the White House Counsel about Mr. Flynn. The first meeting occurred on January 26, called Don McGahn first thing that morning and told him that I had a very sensitive matter that I needed to discuss with him, that I couldn't talk about it on the phone and that I needed to come see him. And he agreed to meet with me later that afternoon.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	BLUMENTHAL: Did you tell Donald McGahn that then-National Security Adviser Flynn told the truth to the FBI?

	YATES: No, he asked me how he had done in the interview, and I specifically declined to answer that.

	BLUMENTHAL: Because it was part of an investigation?

	YATES: That's right.

	BLUMENTHAL: Was that intended to indicate to him that Michael Flynn had a problem in that interview?

	YATES: No, I was intending to let him know that Michael Flynn had a problem on a lot of levels, but it wasn't necessarily with respect to how he performed in the interview. I was intentionally not letting him know how the interview had gone.

	BLUMENTHAL: And lying to the FBI is a crime, correct?

	YATES: It is, yes.


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/08/us/politics/senate-hearing-transcript.html
	BLUNT: The — any suggestion that the — that General Flynn had violated the Logan Act, I always find pretty incredible. The Logan Act’s been on the books for over 200 years. Nobody’s ever been prosecuted for violating the Logan Act.

	My sense would be that the discussion — not the problem — misleading investigators or the vice president might have been.

	COMEY: That’s fair. Yes, sir.

	BLUNT: And — and you’re — had you previously, on February the 14th, discussed with the president, in the previous meeting, anything your investigators had learned, or their impressions from talking to Flynn?

	COMEY: No, sir.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/fbi-reviewed-flynns-calls-with-russian-ambassador-but-found-nothing-illicit/2017/01/23/aa83879a-e1ae-11e6-a547-5fb9411d332c_story.html
 	FBI reviewed Flynn’s calls with Russian ambassador but found nothing illicit 

	By Ellen Nakashima and Greg Miller January 23

	The FBI in late December reviewed intercepts of communications between the Russian ambassador to the United States and retired Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn — national security adviser to then-President-elect Trump — but has not found any evidence of wrongdoing or illicit ties to the Russian government, U.S. officials said.


http://www.latimes.com/politics/la-na-pol-trump-news-conference-transcript-20170216-story.html
	TRUMP: ...As far as the general's concerned, when I first heard about it, I said huh, that doesn't sound wrong. My counsel came, Don McGahn, White House Counsel, and he told me and I asked him, he can speak very well for himself. He said he doesn't think anything is wrong, you know, really didn't think.

	It was really, what happened after that but he didn't think anything was done wrong. I didn't either because I waited a period of time and I started to think about it, I said "well I don't see" -- to me, he was doing the job.

	The information was provided by -- who I don't know, Sally Yates. And I was a little surprised because I said "doesn't sound like he did anything wrong there." But he did something wrong with respect to the vice president and I thought that was not acceptable. As far as -- as far as the actual making the call, fact I've watched various programs and I've read various articles where he was just doing his job.

	That was very normal. You know, first everybody got excited because they thought he did something wrong. After they thought about it, it turned out he was just doing his job. So -- and I do. And by the way, with all of that being said, I do think he's a fine man.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	DURBIN: ...Ms. Yates, let me ask you about this meeting on January the 26th with White House Counsel Don McGahn. You shared the Justice Department's concern about his communications with Russia, his apparent dishonesty about those communications and his vulnerability to blackmail. Is that correct?

	YATES: That's right.

	....YATES: ...The first topic in the second meeting was essentially why does it matter to DOJ if one White House official lies to another. The second topic related to the applicability of criminal statutes and the likelihood that the Department of Justice would pursue a criminal case. The third topic was his concern that their taking action might interfere with an investigation of Mr. Flynn. And the fourth topic was his request to see the underlying evidence.

	...YATES: ...And there was a request made by Mr. McGahn, in the second meeting as to whether or not they would be able to look at the underlying evidence that we had that we had described for him of General Flynn's conduct. And we told him that we were inclined to allow them to look at that underlying evidence, that we wanted to go back to DOJ and be able to make the logistical arrangements for that. This second meeting on the 27th occurred late in the afternoon, this is Friday the 27th. So we told him that we would work with the FBI over the weekend on this issue and get back with him on Monday morning.


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/read-james-comeys-prepared-statement-thursdays-senate-hearing/
	January 27 Dinner

	The President and I had dinner on Friday, January 27 at 6:30 pm in the Green Room at the White House. He had called me at lunchtime that day and invited me to dinner that night

	...The President began by asking me whether I wanted to stay on as FBI Director, which I found strange because he had already told me twice in earlier conversations that he hoped I would stay, and I had assured him that I intended to. He said that lots of people wanted my job and, given the abuse I had taken during the previous year, he would understand if I wanted to walk away.

	My instincts told me that the one-on-one setting, and the pretense that this was our first discussion about my position, meant the dinner was, at least in part, an effort to have me ask for my job and create some sort of patronage relationship. That concerned me greatly, given the FBI’s traditionally independent status in the executive branch.

	I replied that I loved my work and intended to stay and serve out my ten-year term as Director. And then, because the set-up made me uneasy, I added that I was not “reliable” in the way politicians use that word, but he could always count on me to tell him the truth. I added that I was not on anybody’s side politically and could not be counted on in the traditional political sense, a stance I said was in his best interest as the President.

	A few moments later, the President said, “I need loyalty, I expect loyalty.” I didn’t move, speak, or change my facial expression in any way during the awkward silence that followed. We simply looked at each other in silence. The conversation then moved on, but he returned to the subject near the end of our dinner.

	At one point, I explained why it was so important that the FBI and the Department of Justice be independent of the White House. I said it was a paradox: Throughout history, some Presidents have decided that because “problems” come from Justice, they should try to hold the Department close. But blurring those boundaries ultimately makes the problems worse by undermining public trust in the institutions and their work.

	Near the end of our dinner, the President returned to the subject of my job, saying he was very glad I wanted to stay, adding that he had heard great things about me from Jim Mattis, Jeff Sessions, and many others. He then said, “I need loyalty.” I replied, “You will always get honesty from me.” He paused and then said, “That’s what I want, honest loyalty.” I paused, and then said, “You will get that from me.” As I wrote in the memo I created immediately after the dinner, it is possible we understood the phrase “honest loyalty” differently, but I decided it wouldn’t be productive to push it further. The term – honest loyalty – had helped end a very awkward conversation and my explanations had made clear what he should expect.

	During the dinner, the President returned to the salacious material I had briefed him about on January 6, and, as he had done previously, expressed his disgust for the allegations and strongly denied them. He said he was considering ordering me to investigate the alleged incident to prove it didn’t happen. I replied that he should give that careful thought because it might create a narrative that we were investigating him personally, which we weren’t, and because it was very difficult to prove a negative. He said he would think about it and asked me to think about it.


Supposedly, Trump learns from media reports that the FBI scrutinized Flynn's calls to the Russian ambassador but that he "didn't do anything wrong." Shortly after Trump is warned that Flynn lied to Pence and is vulnerable to blackmail, he asks for Comey's "loyalty" in a one-on-one meeting. According to their testimonies, neither Yates nor Comey told the White House that Flynn might have misled the FBI. Trump seems to be very keen on shooting-down the allegations in the "dirty dossier," and asks Comey to prove they are false.


http://www.christianpost.com/news/trump-to-prioritize-persecuted-christians-as-refugees-173681/
	By Anugrah Kumar , Christian Post Contributor
	Jan 28, 2017 

	President Donald Trump signed new orders to "keep radical Islamic terrorists out of the United States of America" and pledged to give priority to persecuted Christians as refugees.


https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/01/30/us/document-Letter-From-Sally-Yates.html
	Letter From Sally Yates

	Jan 30, 2017

	...Its review does not take account of statements made by an administration or its surrogates close in time to the issuance of an Executive Order that may bear on the order's purpose.

	...I am not convinced that the defense of the Executive Order is consistent with these responsibilities nor am I convinced that the Executive Order is lawful.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: Right, so that that would not have a negative impact on the FBI investigation at that point.

	And there was a request made by Mr. McGahn, in the second meeting as to whether or not they would be able to look at the underlying evidence that we had that we had described for him of General Flynn's conduct. And we told him that we were inclined to allow them to look at that underlying evidence, that we wanted to go back to DOJ and be able to make the logistical arrangements for that.

	...YATES: Two meetings and then a phone call at the end to let him know...

	WHITEHOUSE: That the material was available if he wanted to see it.

	YATES: ... that the material was available. He had to call me back. He was not available then and I did not hear back from him until that afternoon of Monday the 30th.

	WHITEHOUSE: And that was the end of this episode, nobody came over to look at the material?

	YATES: I don't know what happened after that because that was my last day with DOJ.


https://www.bostonglobe.com/news/politics/2017/01/30/read-full-white-house-statement-sally-yates/HkFReIYJidU9deDelPK6SM/story.html
	January 31, 2017

	 The White House has fired acting Attorney General Sally Yates, a Democratic appointee, after she directed Justice Department attorneys not to defend President Donald Trump’s controversial executive refugee and immigration ban.

	The following is the full White House statement:

	“The acting Attorney General, Sally Yates, has betrayed the Department of Justice by refusing to enforce a legal order designed to protect the citizens of the United States. This order was approved as to form and legality by the Department of Justice Office of Legal Counsel.

	Ms. Yates is an Obama Administration appointee who is weak on borders and very weak on illegal immigration.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2017/02/02/the-leaks-coming-out-of-the-trump-white-house-right-now-are-totally-bananas/
	The leaks coming out of the Trump White House right now are totally bananas
	By Chris Cillizza February 2

	Here are a few leaks that have come out of the Trump administration in just the last 24 hours:

	* President Trump abruptly ended a phone call with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull after condemning a refugee deal with the country and telling Turnbull "this was the worst call by far" he has had with a world leader.

	* Trump threatened — his administration insisted it was "light-hearted" — Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto with sending American troops into his country.

	* The White House asked Judge Thomas Hardiman to drive toward D.C. to amp up the drama in advance of Trump's Supreme Court pick on Tuesday night. (Hardiman was passed over in favor of Colorado federal appeals court judge Neil Gorsuch.)

	...What's truly remarkable is that the leaking appears to be growing even more frequent and even more deleterious to President Trump's image within just the last few days.


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-leaks-idUSKBN15I321
	Fri Feb 3, 2017 | 6:32pm EST
	White House investigates leaks of Trump calls to Australia, Mexico

	The White House is looking into how embarrassing details of President Donald Trump's recent tense phone conversations with his counterparts in Australia and Mexico were leaked to news organizations, White House spokesman Sean Spicer said on Fox News Channel.

	"The president takes these leaks very seriously," Spicer said in an interview with Fox News Channel, which on Friday provided a transcript of a segment set to air on Saturday.


http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/02/06/trump-leaked-transcripts-mexico-australia-calls-disgraceful.html
	Trump: Leaked transcripts of Mexico, Australia calls 'disgraceful'
	Published February 06, 2017

	Trump, speaking to Fox News, accused “Obama people” of giving news organizations embarrassing details of his recent tense phone conversations with his Australian and Mexican counterparts, and said that the holdovers from the Obama administration still serving on his White House and National Security Council staff were being replaced.

	“It’s a disgrace that they leaked because it’s very much against our country,” Trump said, without stating why he believed that career civil servants who work in Democratic and Republican administrations were the source of the leaks. “It’s a very dangerous thing for this country,” he said.


http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/318621-trump-white-house-besieged-by-leaks
	Trump White House besieged by leaks

	By Niall Stanage - 02/09/17 

	Donald Trump’s White House has sprung a remarkable number of leaks since his inauguration.

	The question is where they’re coming from.

	Barely a day goes by without some unusual tale emerging from 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. Recent examples in a single New York Times story included the assertion that White House aides have held meetings in the dark because they can’t figure out how the lights work and that the president is fond of watching television alone in his bathrobe.

	Trump took to Twitter to assert that the Times “writes total fiction” about him, while White House press secretary Sean Spicer insisted that the president does not even own a bathrobe.

	More serious matters have been leaked as well, such as descriptions of Trump’s call with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull. Trump apparently said a U.S.-Australia deal on refugees, agreed to by President Obama, was “the worst deal ever,” and told Turnbull their conversation was “the worst call by far” among several he had held with world leaders that day.

	The leakiness of the Trump White House has been a boon to the press corps, who find themselves feasting on the juicy insider details that were hard to come by during the “No Drama Obama” years.

	But to those rooting for a successful Trump presidency, the picture looks very different.

	“There have been a ton of leaks. It seems that everyone has their own leaking apparatus,” lamented one Trump ally who works outside the White House.

	...The speculation about who’s up and who’s down among Trump’s cadre of advisors won’t subside anytime soon, however.

	In part, that’s because any leak that emerges is immediately parsed for clues as to the source — and whom they might be intending to harm.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/national-security-adviser-flynn-discussed-sanctions-with-russian-ambassador-despite-denials-officials-say/2017/02/09/f85b29d6-ee11-11e6-b4ff-ac2cf509efe5_story.html
 	National security adviser Flynn discussed sanctions with Russian ambassador, despite denials, officials say 

	By Greg Miller, Adam Entous and Ellen Nakashima February 9

	National security adviser Michael Flynn privately discussed U.S. sanctions against Russia with that country’s ambassador to the United States during the month before President Trump took office, contrary to public assertions by Trump officials, current and former U.S. officials said.

	Flynn’s communications with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak were interpreted by some senior U.S. officials as an inappropriate and potentially illegal signal to the Kremlin that it could expect a reprieve from sanctions that were being imposed by the Obama administration in late December to punish Russia for its alleged interference in the 2016 election.

	Flynn on Wednesday denied that he had discussed sanctions with Kislyak. Asked in an interview whether he had ever done so, he twice said, “No.”


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/09/us/flynn-is-said-to-have-talked-to-russians-about-sanctions-before-trump-took-office.html
	Flynn Is Said to Have Talked to Russians About Sanctions Before Trump Took Office

	By MATTHEW ROSENBERG and MATT APUZZO
	FEB. 9, 2017

	Weeks before President Trump’s inauguration, his national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, discussed American sanctions against Russia, as well as areas of possible cooperation, with that country’s ambassador to the United States, according to current and former American officials.

	Throughout the discussions, the message Mr. Flynn conveyed to the ambassador, Sergey I. Kislyak — that the Obama administration was Moscow’s adversary and that relations with Russia would change under Mr. Trump — was unambiguous and highly inappropriate, the officials said.


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/02/mike-flynn-nsa-aide-trump-234923
	CIA freezes out top Flynn aide

	The agency denied a security clearance for a key aide to the National Security Adviser — ratcheting up tensions between Flynn and the intel community.

	By Kenneth P. Vogel and Josh Dawsey

	02/10/2017 10:16 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/justice-department-warned-white-house-that-flynn-could-be-vulnerable-to-russian-blackmail-officials-say/2017/02/13/fc5dab88-f228-11e6-8d72-263470bf0401_story.html
	Justice Department warned White House that Flynn could be vulnerable to Russian blackmail, officials say 

	By Adam Entous, Ellen Nakashima and Philip Rucker February 13

	The acting attorney general informed the Trump White House late last month that she believed Michael Flynn had misled senior administration officials about the nature of his communications with the Russian ambassador to the United States, and warned that the national security adviser was potentially vulnerable to Russian blackmail, current and former U.S. officials said.


https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/02/13/us/politics/document-Michael-Flynn-Resignation-Letter.html
	Michael Flynn’s Resignation Letter

	February 13

	"I inadvertently briefed the Vice President Elect and others with incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the Russian Ambassador. I have sincerely apologized to the President and the Vice President, and they have accepted my apology."


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/831510532318429184
	The real story here is why are there so many illegal leaks coming out of Washington? Will these leaks be happening as I deal on N.Korea etc?
	6:28 AM - 14 Feb 2017 


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/read-james-comeys-prepared-statement-thursdays-senate-hearing/
	February 14 Oval Office Meeting

	On February 14, I went to the Oval Office for a scheduled counter-terrorism briefing of the President. He sat behind the desk and a group of us sat in a semi-circle of about six chairs facing him on the other side of the desk. The Vice President, Deputy Director of the CIA, Director of the National Counter-Terrorism Center, Secretary of Homeland Security, the Attorney General, and I were in the semi-circle of chairs.

	...The President signaled the end of the briefing by thanking the group and telling them all that he wanted to speak to me alone. I stayed in my chair. As the participants started to leave the Oval Office, the Attorney General lingered by my chair, but the President thanked him and said he wanted to speak only with me.

	...the President began by saying, “I want to talk about Mike Flynn.” Flynn had resigned the previous day. The President began by saying Flynn hadn’t done anything wrong in speaking with the Russians, but he had to let him go because he had misled the Vice President. He added that he had other concerns about Flynn, which he did not then specify.

	The President then made a long series of comments about the problem with leaks of classified information – a concern I shared and still share. After he had spoken for a few minutes about leaks...

	...The President then returned to the topic of Mike Flynn, saying, “He is a good guy and has been through a lot.” He repeated that Flynn hadn’t done anything wrong on his calls with the Russians, but had misled the Vice President. He then said, “I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go.” I replied only that “he is a good guy.” (In fact, I had a positive experience dealing with Mike Flynn when he was a colleague as Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency at the beginning of my term at FBI.) I did not say I would “let this go.”

	The President returned briefly to the problem of leaks. I then got up and left out the door by the grandfather clock, making my way through the large group of people waiting there, including Mr. Priebus and the Vice President.

	I immediately prepared an unclassified memo of the conversation about Flynn and discussed the matter with FBI senior leadership. I had understood the President to be requesting that we drop any investigation of Flynn in connection with false statements about his conversations with the Russian ambassador in December. I did not understand the President to be talking about the broader investigation into Russia or possible links to his campaign. I could be wrong, but I took him to be focusing on what had just happened with Flynn’s departure and the controversy around his account of his phone calls. Regardless, it was very concerning, given the FBI’s role as an independent investigative agency.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/14/politics/donald-trump-aides-russians-campaign/index.html
	Trump aides were in constant touch with senior Russian officials during campaign

	By Pamela Brown, Jim Sciutto and Evan Perez, CNN

	Updated 10:37 PM ET, Wed February 15, 2017

	High-level advisers close to then-presidential nominee Donald Trump were in constant communication during the campaign with Russians known to US intelligence, multiple current and former intelligence, law enforcement and administration officials tell CNN. 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/831830548565852160
	The fake news media is going crazy with their conspiracy theories and blind hatred. @MSNBC & @CNN are unwatchable. @foxandfriends is great!
	3:40 AM - 15 Feb 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/831837514226921472
	This Russian connection non-sense is merely an attempt to cover-up the many mistakes made in Hillary Clinton's losing campaign.
	4:08 AM - 15 Feb 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/831840306161123328
	Information is being illegally given to the failing @nytimes & @washingtonpost by the intelligence community (NSA and FBI?).Just like Russia
	4:19 AM - 15 Feb 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/831842652085686273
	Thank you to Eli Lake of The Bloomberg View - "The NSA & FBI...should not interfere in our politics...and is" Very serious situation for USA
	4:28 AM - 15 Feb 2017


https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-02-14/the-political-assassination-of-michael-flynn
	The Political Assassination of Michael Flynn
	The national security adviser was the appetizer. Trump is the main course.
	by Eli Lake

	February 14, 2017, 3:09 PM GMT

	If we are to believe the Trump White House, National Security Adviser Michael Flynn just resigned because he lied about his conversations with Russia's ambassador to the vice president. As White House senior counselor Kellyanne Conway told NBC's "Today Show" on Tuesday: "Misleading the vice president really was the key here."

	...A better explanation here is that Flynn was just thrown under the bus.

	...Flynn was a fat target for the national security state. He has cultivated a reputation as a reformer and a fierce critic of the intelligence community leaders he once served with when he was the director the Defense Intelligence Agency under President Barack Obama. Flynn was working to reform the intelligence-industrial complex, something that threatened the bureaucratic prerogatives of his rivals.

	He was also a fat target for Democrats. Remember Flynn's breakout national moment last summer was when he joined the crowd at the Republican National Convention from the dais calling for Hillary Clinton to be jailed.

	...In the end, it was Trump's decision to cut Flynn loose. In doing this he caved in to his political and bureaucratic opposition. Nunes told me Monday night that this will not end well. "First it's Flynn, next it will be Kellyanne Conway, then it will be Steve Bannon, then it will be Reince Priebus," he said. 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/831846101179314177
	Crimea was TAKEN by Russia during the Obama Administration. Was Obama too soft on Russia?
	4:42 AM - 15 Feb 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/831853862281699331
	The real scandal here is that classified information is illegally given out by "intelligence" like candy. Very un-American!
	5:13 AM - 15 Feb 2017 


http://video.foxnews.com/v/5325771485001/?#sp=show-clips
	Trump: Intel leaks will stop as we get our people in place
	Feb. 16, 2017


Trump fires Yates under suspicious circumstances and ignores her warning about Flynn, who continues to act as a national security risk (see https://pastebin.com/nCwti01C, https://pastebin.com/YrPgkGCR). After Trump's administration is increasingly inundated by leaks which he blames on leftover Obama officials, The Washington Post and the New York Times leak that Flynn lied about discussing sanctions to Pence and that the White House was warned he was vulnerable to blackmail, and Trump fires Flynn shortly afterward. Trump seems to think he was forced into firing Flynn by leaks.

The next day, Trump singles out Comey to talk to him about Flynn and rant at him about leaks. Trump tells Comey Flynn "didn't do anything wrong" in talking to the Russians, but he had to fire him because he "misled the Vice President." Trump asks Comey "I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go," although Comey doesn't make clear what exactly Trump wants Comey to "let go." Comey interprets it as Trump asking him to drop any investigation connected with Flynn's statements to the Russians.

Trump continues to publicly rant about leaks from the Intelligence Community, continuing to blame them on Obama-appointees.


http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/schiff-defends-committee-examining-russia-trump-connections-n735391
	Mar 19 2017
	Rep. Schiff: ‘Circumstantial Evidence of Collusion’ Between Trump Campaign, Russia

	Despite denials from some top intelligence officials that there was any evidence of collusion between associates of Donald Trump’s presidential campaign and Russian operatives while Moscow tried to interfere with the 2016 election, Rep. Adam Schiff on Sunday defended the House Intelligence Committee continuing to look into the matter.

	Two weeks ago on "Meet The Press," James Clapper, the Director of National Intelligence under President Obama, denied that any evidence of such collusion existed while he oversaw the work of U.S. intelligence agencies. The Trump administration has also reiterated those denials. 

	But this Sunday on "Meet The Press," Schiff, D-Calif., told host Chuck Todd, "I was surprised to see Director Clapper say that because I don’t think you can make that claim categorically as he did. I would characterize it this way at the outset of the investigation: There is circumstantial evidence of collusion."


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/843772976151642112
	James Clapper and others stated that there is no evidence Potus colluded with Russia. This story is FAKE NEWS and everyone knows it!
	3:35 AM - 20 Mar 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/843776582825267201
	The Democrats made up and pushed the Russian story as an excuse for running a terrible campaign. Big advantage in Electoral College & lost!
	3:49 AM - 20 Mar 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/843779892776964097
	The real story that Congress, the FBI and all others should be looking into is the leaking of Classified information. Must find leaker now!
	4:02 AM - 20 Mar 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/843813078076719107
	What about all of the contact with the Clinton campaign and the Russians? Also, is it true that the DNC would not let the FBI in to look?
	6:14 AM - 20 Mar 2017


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-39324587
	Trump Russia claims: FBI's Comey confirms investigation of election 'interference'
	20 March 2017

	FBI director James Comey has confirmed for the first time that the FBI is investigating alleged Russian interference in the 2016 election.

	However, Mr Comey said his agency had seen no evidence to back up President Trump's claim that his phones had been tapped by the Obama administration.

	He was giving evidence to the congressional intelligence committee.

	The Trump administration said nothing had changed and there was "no evidence of Trump-Russia collusion".


https://twitter.com/mitchellvii/status/844707663187456000
	Donald J. Trump Retweeted
	Bill Mitchell Verified account @mitchellvii Mar 22

	EXACTLY AS I SAID - House Intel Chair: We Cannot Rule Out Sr. Obama Officials Were Involved in Trump Surveillance

	http://www.thegatewaypundit.com/2017/03/boom-house-intel-chair-cannot-rule-sr-obama-officials-involved-trump-surveillance/


https://twitter.com/mitchellvii/status/844689725755703296
	Donald J. Trump Retweeted
	Bill Mitchell Verified account @mitchellvii Mar 22

	Trump always ends up being right.  It's almost a little freaky.


http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/325193-biden-on-trump-russia-relationship-what-in-the-hell-are-we
	Biden on Trump, Russia relationship: 'What in the hell are we doing?'

	03/22/17

	Former Vice President Joe Biden on Wednesday knocked the Trump administration for its relationship with Russia, criticizing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson's decision to visit Russia before a NATO meeting.

	"The notion that there's still this romance with Putin ... I'm told [Tillerson] has decided he's going to go visit Putin before he goes to the NATO conference? What in the hell are we doing?" Biden told reporters at the Capitol.

	On Monday, it was announced that Tillerson would not attend an April 5-6 meeting of NATO foreign ministers. He is instead staying in the U.S. for a visit by Chinese President Xi Jinping. Tillerson will then travel to Russia for a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/03/23/politics/adam-schiff-trump-russia-grand-jury/index.html
	Schiff: New evidence shows possible Trump-Russia collusion

	Updated 9:41 PM ET, Thu March 23, 2017

	The top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee is claiming that he has been presented with new information on collusion between associates of President Donald Trump and Russia, suggesting "it's the kind of evidence" that a grand jury investigation would want to consider.


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/03/chuck-grassley-rod-rosenstein-justice-nomination-236483
	Grassley relents on Rosenstein nomination

	03/24/2017 

	Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) is finally letting the nomination of a top Justice Department official advance, after refusing to schedule a vote because he had not received sufficient information on the ongoing Russia probe.

	The committee announced Friday that it will take up the nomination of Rod Rosenstein for deputy attorney general at its business meeting on Monday. Grassley had complained the administration was stonewalling his requests for more information, and earlier this month said he would not schedule a vote for Rosenstein until he was briefed by the FBI.


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/03/chuck-grassley-donald-trump-dossier-236538
	Grassley requests information from firm behind Trump dossier

	03/27/2017

	Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley is requesting information about the relationship between the FBI and the opposition research firm behind an unsubstantiated dossier whose contents included salacious allegations against President Donald Trump and his campaign aides.

	Grassley has sent a letter to the firm, Fusion GPS, asking for the firm to disclose who funded the dossier, which was compiled by a former British intelligence agent, and whether the company was in touch with the FBI or Justice Department about it.

	“When political opposition research becomes the basis for law enforcement or intelligence efforts, it raises substantial questions about the independence of law enforcement and intelligence from politics,” Grassley wrote in the letter.

	...The Washington Post reported that the FBI reached an agreement with the former British intelligence agent, Christopher Steele, to continue his research — though the deal reportedly never came to fruition.


https://www.grassley.senate.gov/sites/default/files/judiciary/upload/2017-03-28%20CEG%20to%20FBI%20%28McCabe%20Conflict%20in%20Trump%20Associates%20Investigation%29.pdf
	March 28, 2017

	Dear Director Comey: 

	...Pursuant to its authority under the Constitution and the Rules of the Senate, the Committee requires information to determine: (1) the extent to which FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe has been involved in the FBI’s investigation of President Trump’s associates and Russia; (2) whether that involvement raises the appearance a conflict of interest in light of his wife’s ties with Clinton associates; and (3) whether Mr. McCabe has been or should be recused from the investigation. 
 
	As you know, Mr. McCabe is under investigation by the Department of Justice Office of the 
Inspector General. That investigation is examining whether the political and financial connections between his wife’s Democratic political campaign and Clinton associates warranted his recusal in the FBI’s Clinton email investigation. On March 7, 2015, just five days after the New York Times broke the story about Secretary Clinton’s use of private email for official business, Mr. McCabe met with Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe, a longtime, close associate of the Clintons—along with his wife, Dr. McCabe. Mr. McAuliffe recruited Dr. McCabe, who had not previously run for any political office, to be the Democratic candidate for a Virginia state senate seat. Dr. McCabe agreed, and Governor McAuliffe’s political action committee subsequently gave nearly $500,000 to her campaign while the FBI’s investigation of Secretary Clinton was ongoing. The Virginia Democratic Party, over which Mr. McAuliffe exerts considerable control, also donated over $200,000 to Dr. McCabe’s campaign. While Mr. McCabe recused himself from public corruption cases in Virginia—presumably including the reportedly ongoing investigation of Mr. McAuliffe regarding illegal campaign contributions—he failed to recuse himself from the Clinton email investigation, despite the appearance of a conflict created by his wife’s campaign accepting $700,000 from a close Clinton associate during the investigation.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/trump-administration-sought-to-block-sally-yates-from-testifying-to-congress-on-russia/2017/03/28/82b73e18-13b4-11e7-9e4f-09aa75d3ec57_story.html
 	Trump administration sought to block Sally Yates from testifying to Congress on Russia

	By Devlin Barrett and Adam Entous March 28

	The Trump administration sought to block former acting attorney general Sally Yates from testifying in the House investigation of possible links between Russian officials and Donald Trump’s campaign, according to letters provided to The Washington Post.


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/03/adam-schiff-sally-yates-michael-flynn-testimony-236585
	Schiff: Yates would have testified on Flynn ‘cover-up’

	03/28/2017 

	Rep. Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, says a hearing set for Tuesday with former acting Attorney General Sally Yates — which was canceled by Republicans — would have featured explosive testimony on Michael Flynn’s efforts to "cover up" his conversations with Russia’s ambassador.

	The intelligence panel was scheduled to hold a public hearing with members of the Obama administration, including Yates, but Republicans nixed the session last week after the Trump administration raised concerns about Yates' possible testimony.


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/847061031293779969
	If the people of our great country could only see how viciously and inaccurately my administration is covered by certain media!
	5:21 AM - 29 Mar 2017 


http://www.cnn.com/2017/03/29/politics/james-comey-fbi/index.html
	Comey: I know when I'm going to cause a 'storm'

	Updated 5:25 AM ET, Thu March 30, 2017

	FBI Director James Comey said Wednesday his agency makes its decisions on a nonpartisan basis and said he doesn't care about the political backlash of the choices he makes.

	"I know that when I make a hard decision, a storm is going to follow," Comey said at the Intelligence and National Security Alliance Leadership dinner. "Honestly, I don't care."


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/847455180912181249
	The failing @nytimes has disgraced the media world. Gotten me wrong for two solid years. Change libel laws?
	
		The New York Times’ ongoing dishonesty only helps Trump...

	7:27 AM - 30 Mar 2017


http://nypost.com/2017/03/27/the-new-york-times-ongoing-dishonesty-only-helps-trump/amp/
	The New York Times’ ongoing dishonesty only helps Trump

	...As I’ve written before, back on Jan. 20 the Times carried a front-page story with the headline: “Wiretapped Data Used in Inquiry of Trump Aides.”

	...if that reporting was correct, the Times knew that some people associated with Trump were being wiretapped or — possibly — had been mentioned in wiretaps of foreign governments.

	...James Comey, the head of the FBI, recently denied Trump’s allegations in testimony before Congress, as did the head of the National Security Agency. Both are now expected to meet with Congress behind closed doors to see if they’d like to change their testimony.


https://www.wsj.com/articles/mike-flynn-offers-to-testify-in-exchange-for-immunity-1490912959
	Mike Flynn Offers to Testify in Exchange for Immunity

	Updated March 30, 2017 9:00 p.m. ET

	Mike Flynn, President Donald Trump’s former national security adviser, has told the Federal Bureau of Investigation and congressional officials investigating the Trump campaign’s potential ties to Russia that he is willing to be interviewed in exchange for a grant of immunity from prosecution, according to officials with knowledge of the matter.


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/read-james-comeys-prepared-statement-thursdays-senate-hearing/
	March 30 Phone Call

	On the morning of March 30, the President called me at the FBI. He described the Russia investigation as “a cloud” that was impairing his ability to act on behalf of the country. He said he had nothing to do with Russia, had not been involved with hookers in Russia, and had always assumed he was being recorded when in Russia. He asked what we could do to “lift the cloud.” I responded that we were investigating the matter as quickly as we could, and that there would be great benefit, if we didn’t find anything, to our having done the work well. He agreed, but then re-emphasized the problems this was causing him.

	Then the President asked why there had been a congressional hearing about Russia the previous week – at which I had, as the Department of Justice directed, confirmed the investigation into possible coordination between Russia and the Trump campaign. I explained the demands from the leadership of both parties in Congress for more information, and that Senator Grassley had even held up the confirmation of the Deputy Attorney General until we briefed him in detail on the investigation. I explained that we had briefed the leadership of Congress on exactly which individuals we were investigating and that we had told those Congressional leaders that we were not personally investigating President Trump. I reminded him I had previously told him that. He repeatedly told me, “We need to get that fact out.” (I did not tell the President that the FBI and the Department of Justice had been reluctant to make public statements that we did not have an open case on President Trump for a number of reasons, most importantly because it would create a duty to correct, should that change.)

	The President went on to say that if there were some “satellite” associates of his who did something wrong, it would be good to find that out, but that he hadn’t done anything wrong and hoped I would find a way to get it out that we weren’t investigating him.

	In an abrupt shift, he turned the conversation to FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, saying he hadn’t brought up “the McCabe thing” because I had said McCabe was honorable, although McAuliffe was close to the Clintons and had given him (I think he meant Deputy Director McCabe’s wife) campaign money. Although I didn’t understand why the President was bringing this up, I repeated that Mr. McCabe was an honorable person.

	He finished by stressing “the cloud” that was interfering with his ability to make deals for the country and said he hoped I could find a way to get out that he wasn’t being investigated. I told him I would see what we could do, and that we would do our investigative work well and as quickly as we could.

	Immediately after that conversation, I called Acting Deputy Attorney General Dana Boente (AG Sessions had by then recused himself on all Russia-related matters), to report the substance of the call from the President, and said I would await his guidance. I did not hear back from him before the President called me again two weeks later.


http://gizmodo.com/this-is-almost-certainly-james-comey-s-twitter-account-1793843641
	This Is Almost Certainly James Comey’s Twitter Account

	Ashley Feinberg
	3/30/17 3:29pm

	There is only one person currently following the account: Benjamin Wittes of Lawfare. 

	...follows 27 other accounts, the majority of which are either reporters, news outlets, or official government and law enforcement accounts. The New York Times’ Adam Goldman and David Sanger and the Washington Post’s Ellen Nakashima and David Ignatius, all of whom have been aggressively covering the FBI investigation into Trump’s contacts with Russian agents, made the list, as did Wittes and former Bush Administration colleague Jack Goldsmith. Donald Trump is on there, too, but @projectexile7 seems to have begun following him relatively recently (its first follow was @nytimes).

	...And of the 39 total tweets the account has liked thus far eight refer directly to the FBI or James Comey himself

	...One deals with an active FBI investigation:

		Jared Kushner and Michael Flynn met with Russian envoy in December, White House says https://t.co/1rLCyNjxkM
		— The New York Times (@nytimes) March 2, 2017

	And four refer to the Trump administration in general:

		...#NotesFromUnderTrump, Day 25: The excellent Paul Gewirtz with a measured critique of the 9th Circuit. Very useful: https://t.co/rKpmpzsbHc

		...The hearing was titled, "Making EPA great again." Scientists are afraid the opposite will happen. https://t.co/wWiuWw4AdE

		...The "Who Wants to be a Secretary of State?" Edition - President-Elect Trump is zeroing in on a nominee for... https://t.co/5UbT8ccrqY

		...Donald Trump is assembling the richest administration in modern American history https://t.co/tpT6UnV3Dy


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/847766558520856578
	Mike Flynn should ask for immunity in that this is a witch hunt (excuse for big election loss), by media & Dems, of historic proportion!
	4:04 AM - 31 Mar 2017 


http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/03/31/intelligence-official-who-unmasked-trump-associates-is-very-high-up-source-says.html
	Intelligence official who 'unmasked' Trump associates is 'very high up,' source says

	By Malia Zimmerman, Adam Housley Published March 31, 2017

	The U.S. intelligence official who “unmasked,” or exposed, the names of multiple private citizens affiliated with the Trump team is someone “very well known, very high up, very senior in the intelligence world,” a source told Fox News on Friday. 

	Intelligence and House sources with direct knowledge of the disclosure of classified names told Fox News that House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., now knows who is responsible -- and that person is not in the FBI.

	...“The main issue in this case, is not only the unmasking of these names of private citizens, but the spreading of these names for political purposes that have nothing to do with national security or an investigation into Russia’s interference in the U.S. election,” a congressional source close to the investigation told Fox News. 


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/848216035153121285
	Wow, @FoxNews just reporting big news. Source: "Official behind unmasking is high up. Known Intel official is responsible. Some unmasked....
	9:50 AM - 1 Apr 2017


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/848219027659010051
	..not associated with Russia. Trump team spied on before he was nominated." If this is true, does not get much bigger. Would be sad for U.S.
	10:02 AM - 1 Apr 2017


Comey reveals that Trump's associates are under a counterintelligence investigation for ties to Russia while Trump rants about it on twitter. Trump continues to insist Obama spied on him. Meanwhile, Trump's associates are stiffing NATO and blocking Sally Yate's testimony on Flynn. Biden wonders "what the hell are we doing." Schiff insists there is evidence of cover-ups and collusion, Grassley raises a stink about FBI connections with the "dirty dossier," and Comey mentions that he "knows when he's going to cause a storm" but he "doesn't care." Flynn tells Russia investigators he will testify in exchange for immunity. Trump complains that the media treats him unfairly.

It is around this time that Trump calls up Comey to complain about the Russia investigation, calling it a "cloud" over his administration and reiterating that he wasn't involved with hookers in Russia. Trump asks Comey if there is anything the FBI could do to "lift the cloud." Trump agrees the FBI should do a good job, but reemphasizes that "the cloud" is causing him problems and complicating his efforts to "make deals" for the country.

Reading between the lines of Comey's statement, it looks like Trump asks Comey why he publicly confirmed the counterintelligence investigation into his associates, and Comey tells him that Congress wanted it. Trump repeatedly tells Comey "we need get it out" that he is not under investigation, and says it would be good to clear the names of his associates if they haven't done anything wrong.

In an apparent attempt to bargain, Trump points out to Comey that he hadn't mentioned "the McCabe thing" (that McCabe had the appearance of a conflict of interest regarding donations from Clinton associates) since Comey said McMabe is "honorable." Comey repeats that McCabe is "honorable" and Trump reiterates that the "cloud" is hurting his dealmaking and he wants the public to know he's not under investigation. After the meeting, a journalist claims to have found Comey's twitter account, which is following several high-profile journalists who have been reporting on the Russia story in the Washington Post and New York Times.

Trump continues to tweet that the Russia investigation is made up and that Obama's intelligence agencies were out to get him.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/04/05/politics/trump-associates-russians-meetings/index.html
	One week, three more Trump-Russia connections
	Updated 6:36 AM ET, Thu April 6, 2017 

	In December, Donald Trump's son-in-law and close adviser met privately with the head of a Russian bank under U.S. sanctions.

	In January, a major Trump donor with ties to his administration flew to a remote island and conferred with a confidant of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
And four years ago, a Trump adviser interacted with a Russian spy trying to elicit intelligence.

	Three revelations in the past week have raised new questions from lawmakers about the Trump team's relations with Russian leaders and broadened Congress's inquiries into whether Trump associates colluded with Russia in its effort to sway the 2016 presidential election.


http://www.cnbc.com/2017/04/06/the-us-warned-the-russians-ahead-of-syria-missile-strikes-official.html
	The US warned the Russians ahead of Syria missile strikes

 	Friday, 7 Apr 2017 | 1:38 AM ET

	A U.S. official said the Russians had been warned before the U.S. launched at least 59 tomahawk missiles aimed at Syria.

	Pentagon spokesman Captain Jeff Davis said in an official statement: "Russian forces were notified in advance of the strike using the established deconfliction line. U.S. military planners took precautions to minimize risk to Russian or Syrian personnel located at the airfield."

	The strikes, which hit an airfield near Homs, struck aircraft and infrastructure including the runway, NBC reported. There is no word on casualties yet, but no people were targeted, the official told NBC.


https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/04/06/statement-president-trump-syria
	Statement by President Trump on Syria

	April 06, 2017

	THE PRESIDENT:  My fellow Americans:  On Tuesday, Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad launched a horrible chemical weapons attack on innocent civilians.  Using a deadly nerve agent, Assad choked out the lives of helpless men, women, and children.  It was a slow and brutal death for so many.  Even beautiful babies were cruelly murdered in this very barbaric attack.  No child of God should ever suffer such horror.

	Tonight, I ordered a targeted military strike on the airfield in Syria from where the chemical attack was launched.  It is in this vital national security interest of the United States to prevent and deter the spread and use of deadly chemical weapons.  There can be no dispute that Syria used banned chemical weapons, violated its obligations under the Chemical Weapons Convention, and ignored the urging of the U.N. Security Council.  

	Years of previous attempts at changing Assad's behavior have all failed, and failed very dramatically.  As a result, the refugee crisis continues to deepen and the region continues to destabilize, threatening the United States and its allies.  

	Tonight, I call on all civilized nations to join us in seeking to end the slaughter and bloodshed in Syria, and also to end terrorism of all kinds and all types.  We ask for God's wisdom as we face the challenge of our very troubled world.  We pray for the lives of the wounded and for the souls of those who have passed.  And we hope that as long as America stands for justice, then peace and harmony will, in the end, prevail.  

	Goodnight.  And God bless America and the entire world.  Thank you.

	END


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-mideast-crisis-syria-idUSKBN1782S0
	Sat Apr 8, 2017 | 9:06am EDT
	Russia warns of serious consequences from U.S. strike in Syria

	Russia warned on Friday that U.S. cruise missile strikes on a Syrian air base could have "extremely serious" consequences, as President Donald Trump's first major foray into a foreign conflict opened up a rift between Moscow and Washington.


http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/trump-s-white-house-offers-mixed-messages-syria-n744556
	Team Trump Offers Mixed Messages on Syria

	- U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley on Meet the Press: "In no way do we see peace in that area with Assad as the head of the Syrian government. And we have to make sure that we're pushing that process. The political solution has to come together for the good of the people of Syria.”

	- Haley on CNN: “Regime change is something that we think is going to happen because all of the parties are going to see that Assad is not the leader that needs to be taking place for Syria.”

	- Tillerson on CBS: “[W]e believe that the first priority is the defeat of ISIS, that, by defeating ISIS and removing their caliphate from their control, we have now eliminated at least or minimized a particular threat, not just the United States, but to the whole stability in the region. And once the ISIS threat has been reduced or eliminated, I think we can turn our attention directly to stabilizing the situation in Syria."

	- National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster on FOX: “[W]hat Ambassador Haley pointed out is it's very difficult to understand how a political solution could result from the continuation of the Assad regime. Now, we are not saying that we are the ones who are going to affect that change. What we are saying is, other countries have to ask themselves some hard questions. Russia should ask themselves, what are we doing here?”

	...The waters are muddy here, and it’s complicating the way forward for an administration that hoped to take advantage of a show of decisiveness last week...


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/onpolitics/2017/05/01/syrian-missile-attack-after-dinner-entertainment-commerce-secretary-wilbur-ross-says/101175242/
	Syrian missile attack was 'after-dinner entertainment,' Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross says

	Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross likened the U.S. attack on a Syrian airbase to "after-dinner entertainment" for those who were at Mar-a-Lago that week, according to a new report.

	The way Ross describes it, on April 6, in the middle of President Trump's summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping, "just as dessert was being served, the president explained to Mr. Xi he had something he wanted to tell him, which was the launching of 59 missiles into Syria. It was in lieu of after-dinner entertainment."


http://www.cnn.com/2017/04/12/politics/donald-trump-xi-jingping-syria-chocolate-cake/index.html
	Trump, Xi talked Syria strike over 'beautiful' chocolate cake

	President Donald Trump, in an interview with Fox Business, said he informed Chinese President Xi Jinping about the air strikes he authorized in Syria over the "most beautiful piece of chocolate cake that you've ever seen" at his ocean-side club and that the communist leader was "enjoying it."

	"I was sitting at the table. We had finished dinner. We're now having dessert. And we had the most beautiful piece of chocolate cake that you've ever seen and President Xi was enjoying it," Trump said, before telling interviewer Maria Bartiromo he was told the strike was ready to go.

	Trump added that he told Xi that the United States had "just fired 59 missiles ... heading to Iraq," incorrectly identifying the country he was striking when relaying the story to Bartiromo.

	Of Xi, Trump said, "And he was eating his cake. And he was silent."

	
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/what-happened-to-russias-agreement-to-eliminate-syrias-chemical-weapons/
	What happened to Russia's agreement to eradicate Syria’s chemical weapons?

	April 10, 2017, 6:00 AM


https://apnews.com/19772be1238e49fbb62c509a5b659b3d/official-us-military-takes-extra-precautions-syria
	Official: Russia knew Syrian chemical attack was coming

	...The allegation of Russian foreknowledge is grave, even by the standards of the currently dismal U.S.-Russian relations.


http://thehill.com/policy/international/middle-east-north-africa/328165-us-determines-russia-knew-of-chemical-weapons
	WH disputes report Russia knew of chemical attack in Syria beforehand
	By Mallory Shelbourne - 04/10/17 04:26 PM EDT 

	The Associated Press reported Monday that the United States determined that Russia knew about last week’s chemical attack on a town in Syria beforehand.

	But in a Monday evening statement, a senior administration official disputed that report. 


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/11/opinion/is-russia-testing-trump.html
	Is Russia Testing Trump?

	By MICHAEL J. MORELL and EVELYN FARKASAPRIL 11, 2017

	This week Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is making his first diplomatic visit to Russia, where he’s likely to press Moscow on its handling of Syria, which he has called “incompetent.”

	But Mr. Tillerson should recognize that Russia’s involvement in Syria is only one example of the increasingly active, and disruptive, role that President Vladimir Putin has been playing on the world stage since Donald Trump’s inauguration.


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/read-james-comeys-prepared-statement-thursdays-senate-hearing/
	April 11 Phone Call

	On the morning of April 11, the President called me and asked what I had done about his request that I “get out” that he is not personally under investigation. I replied that I had passed his request to the Acting Deputy Attorney General, but I had not heard back. He replied that “the cloud” was getting in the way of his ability to do his job. He said that perhaps he would have his people reach out to the Acting Deputy Attorney General. I said that was the way his request should be handled. I said the White House Counsel should contact the leadership of DOJ to make the request, which was the traditional channel.

	He said he would do that and added, “Because I have been very loyal to you, very loyal; we had that thing you know.” I did not reply or ask him what he meant by “that thing.” I said only that the way to handle it was to have the White House Counsel call the Acting Deputy Attorney General. He said that was what he would do and the call ended.

	That was the last time I spoke with President Trump.


http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/328590-trump-reinforces-turnaround-on-syria-and-russia
	Trump reinforces turnaround on Syria and Russia
	04/12/17

	Asked if he thought Russia knew of the sarin nerve gas attack that the U.S. and its allies have pinned on Syrian President Bashar Assad, whose government has been facing armed opposition in a yearslong civil war, Trump hedged.

	“I think it's certainly possible. I think it's probably unlikely,” he said. “I would like to think that they didn't know, but certainly they could have.”

	...Trump has been signaling a more aggressive and antagonistic approach to Syria and Russia, Assad’s primary backer, since the chemical attack — moving away from his campaign promises to forge better ties with Moscow and to avoid U.S. military interventions in the Middle East. 


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-russia-tillerson-putin-idUSKBN17E11W
	Wed Apr 12, 2017

	Putin says U.S.-Russia ties worse since Trump took office

	Levels of trust between Moscow and Washington have deteriorated since U.S. President Donald Trump took office, Russian President Vladimir Putin said in an interview broadcast on Wednesday.

	Asked about relations since Trump became president, Putin said, according to a transcript of the interview released by the Kremlin: "One could say that the level of trust on a working level, especially on the military level, has not improved, but rather has deteriorated."

	Asked about accusations that Syria's government launched a chemical weapons attack in Idlib province, Putin said that Damascus had given up its chemical weapons stocks.


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/852510810287075329
	Things will work out fine between the U.S.A. and Russia. At the right time everyone will come to their senses & there will be lasting peace!
	6:16 AM - 13 Apr 2017 


After bungling his response to the Syrian chemical attacks, Trump calls up Comey again to ask him about "getting it out" that he is not under investigation. Reading between the lines, this might be what Trump thinks is "the cloud" that is "getting in the way of doing his job." It is unclear if this call is related to the Syria strikes, but that seems to be the biggest Russia-related event leading-up to the call.

Comey tells Trump to reach out to Boente instead. In another apparent attempt to bargain, Trump reminds Comey that he has been "loyal" to him and that "we had that thing you know." Comey reiterates that Trump should bring his request to DOJ leadership, and that was the last time Comey talked to Trump.

Trump continues his weak foreign policy and quiet submission to Putin.


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/05/02/trump-clinton-comey-best-thing-that-ever-happened-237911
	Trump jabs back at Clinton: Comey was 'best thing that ever happened' to her

	05/02/2017 

	President Trump woke up Tuesday fuming at Democrats and calling for a shutdown of the federal government later this year. He went to bed Tuesday fuming at Hillary Clinton and accusing James Comey, his FBI director, of taking it easy on her -- in another extraordinary 140-character post for the commander-in-chief.


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/859601184285491201
	FBI Director Comey was the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad deeds! The phony...
	7:51 PM - 2 May 2017


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/859604996236742656
	...Trump/Russia story was an excuse used by the Democrats as justification for losing the election. Perhaps Trump just ran a great campaign?
	8:06 PM - 2 May 2017


http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/02/politics/lindsey-graham-susan-rice-senate-hearing/index.html
	Lindsey Graham calls on Susan Rice to testify at hearing

	May 2, 2017

	Graham, the chairman of a judiciary subcommittee, told CNN he has asked Rice to testify at the same hearing where former deputy Attorney General Sally Yates and former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper will testify on Russia meddling. It is unclear if Rice will appear.
CNN has reached out to Rice for comment and has not yet received a response. Over the weekend, Rice denied the unmasking allegation to CNN's Fareed Zakaria.

	"I did my job, which was to protect the American people, and I did it faithfully and to the best of my ability," she said. "And never did I do anything that was untoward with respect to the intelligence I received."

	The call from Graham shows the lingering concern among Republicans that Rice may have acted improperly in seeking to learn the identities of Trump officials discussing matters with foreign officials related to the Trump transition.


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/860081707315232771
	Susan Rice, the former National Security Advisor to President Obama, is refusing to testify before a Senate Subcommittee next week on.....
	3:40 AM - 4 May 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/860083874893897728
	...allegations of unmasking Trump transition officials. Not good!
	3:49 AM - 4 May 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/861550676505219073
	General Flynn was given the highest security clearance by the Obama Administration - but the Fake News seldom likes talking about that.
	4:57 AM - 8 May 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/861592420043157504
	Ask Sally Yates, under oath, if she knows how classified information got into the newspapers soon after she explained it to W.H. Counsel.
	7:43 AM - 8 May 2017 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	WHITEHOUSE: You could perhaps have waited until you actually had seen the agents 302 from the interview of General Flynn. Why go ahead of that? Why not wait?

	YATES: Well, because this was a matter of some urgency, we...

	WHITEHOUSE: Describe.

	YATES: In making the determination about notification here, we had to balance a variety of interest. For the reasons that I just described a few minutes ago, we felt like it was critical that we get this information to the White House, because in part because the vice president was unknowingly making false statements to the public and because we believed that General Flynn was compromised with respect to the Russians.

	...YATES: ...And, in fact, Mr. McGahn responded back to me to let me know that anything that General Flynn would've said would have been based -- excuse me -- anything that Vice President Pence would have said would have been based on what General Flynn had told him.

	YATES: ...one of the questions that Mr. McGahn asked me when I went back over the second day was essentially, why does it matter to DOJ if one White House official lies to another White House official?

	And so we explained to him, it was a whole lot more than that and went back over the same concerns that we had raised with them the prior day, that the concern first about the underlying conduct itself, that he had lied to the vice president and others, the American public had been misled.

	YATES ...and in fact, I remember specifically saying, you know it wouldn't really be fair of us to tell you this and then expect you to sit on your hands.

	...KLOBUCHAR: ...And one of the White House officials has described the notification that you provided warning them of this as a heads up. How would you describe a heads-up?

	YATES: Well at the risk of trying to characterize. I mean we were there to tell the White House about something we were very concerned about and emphasized to them repeatedly. It was so they could take action.

	...DURBIN: On February 14th, after General Flynn resigned, Sean Spicer said, and I quote, "There was nothing in what General Flynn did in terms of conducting himself that was an issue." Do you have any idea what he meant by those words?

	YATES: No. I'm not -- all I can say is he didn't reach that conclusion from his conversation with us. I can't speak to how he arrived at that.

	...KLOBUCHAR: And during that meeting did they mention -- anyone mention that this refugee order was about to come out?

	YATES: No.

	KLOBUCHAR: Did the acting Attorney General of the United States?

	YATES: No and that was one thing that was of concern to us, is that not only was department leadership not consulted here and beyond department leadership, really the subject matter experts, the national security experts, not only was the department not consulted, we weren't even told about it. I learned about this from media reports.

	KLOBUCHAR: So you learned about it after the meeting at the White house Council from the media.

	YATES: Right.

	KLOBUCHAR: And then it's true that during your hearing, then Senator Sessions, now the Attorney General actually asked you if the views the President wants to execute are unlawful, should the Attorney General or Deputy Attorney General say no? And what did you say?

	YATES: And I said yes, the Attorney General should.

	...YATES: Well, certainly, in the course of the meetings, both on the 26th and 27th, Mr. McGahn certainly demonstrated that he understood that this was serious. So he did seem to be taking it seriously.

	I -- you know, I don't have any way of knowing what, if anything, they did. If nothing was done, then certainly, that would be concerning.

	...Had I remained at the Department of Justice, and if I were under the impression that nothing had been done, then, yes, I would have raised it again with the White House.

	...WHITEHOUSE: And that was the end of this episode, nobody came over to look at the material?

	YATES: I don't know what happened after that because that was my last day with DOJ.

	...YATES: I think they're coming back, and we have to do a whole lot more, both to harden our election systems, our state election systems, to ensure that folks out there know when they're looking at news feeds, that it may not be real news that they're reading.

	I think that we have to do more to deter the Russians, and it wouldn't hurt to prosecute a few folks...


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/861713233786404864
	Sally Yates made the fake media extremely unhappy today --- she said nothing but old news!
	3:43 PM - 8 May 2017 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	GRAHAM: Without objection. General Clapper, on March 5, 2017, you said the following to a question. Here's the question.

	Does intelligence exist that can definitely answer the following question, whether there were improper contacts between the Trump campaign and Russian officials? You said we did not include any evidence in our report.

	And I say our, that's the NSA, the FBI, the CIA, with my office, the Director of National Intelligence, that had anything — that had any reflection of collusion between members of the Trump campaign and the Russians. There was no evidence of that included in our report.

	Chuck Todd (ph) then asked, I understand that, but does it exist? You say no, not to my knowledge. Is that still accurate?

	CLAPPER: It is.

	GRAHAM: Ms. Yates, do you have any evidence — are you aware of any evidence that would suggest that in the 2016 campaign anybody in the Trump campaign colluded — colluded with the Russian government intelligence services in improper fashion?

	YATES: And Senator, my answer to that question would require me to reveal classified information. And so, I — I can't answer that.

	GRAHAM: Well, I don't get that because he just said he issued the report. And he said he doesn't know of any. So, what would you know that's not in the report? ...

	YATES: Well, I think that Director Clapper also said that he was unaware of the FBI counter intelligence investigations.

	GRAHAM: Would it be fair to say that the counter-intelligence investigation was not mature enough to come to his — to get in the report. Is that fair, Mr. — Mr. Clapper?

	CLAPPER: I — that's an — that's a possibility.

	...FEINSTEIN: The Guardian has reported that Britain's intelligence service first became aware in late 2015 of suspicious interactions between Trump advisers and Russian intelligence agents. This information was passed on to U.S. intelligence agencies.

	Over the spring of 2016, multiple European allies passed on additional information to the United States about contacts between the Trump campaign and Russians. Is this accurate?

	YATES: I -- I can't answer that.

	FEINSTEIN: General Clapper, is that accurate?

	CLAPPER: Yes, it is and it's also quite sensitive.

	FEINSTEIN: OK. Let me ask you this.

	CLAPPER: The specifics are -- are --- are quite sensitive.


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/861712617299210240
	Director Clapper reiterated what everybody, including the fake media already knows- there is "no evidence" of collusion w/ Russia and Trump.
	3:41 PM - 8 May 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/861715019674910721
	Biggest story today between Clapper & Yates is on surveillance. Why doesn't the media report on this? #FakeNews!
	3:50 PM - 8 May 2017 


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/05/18/rod-rosenstein-james-coming-senators-briefing-238562
	Senators: Rosenstein knew Comey would be fired before writing memo

	Rod Rosenstein already knew James Comey was going to be fired as FBI director when he wrote the three-page memo that the White House would later assert had sealed Comey’s fate, multiple senators said Thursday as they left a highly-anticipated briefing with the deputy attorney general.

	Rosenstein learned Comey was being ousted on May 8, according to Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), but the memo is dated May 9 — the day the firing took place.


https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/05/rosenstein-letter-annotated/526116/
	May 9, 2017

	MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

	FROM: ROD J. ROSENSTEIN

	DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

	SUBJECT: RESTORING PUBLIC CONFIDENCE IN THE FBI

	...As you and I have discussed, however, I cannot defend the Director's handling of the conclusion of the investigation of Secretary Clinton's emails, and I do not understand his refusal to accept the nearly universal judgment that he was mistaken. Almost everyone agrees that the Director made serious mistakes; it is one of the few issues that unites people of diverse perspectives.

	The director was wrong to usurp the Attorney General's authority on July 5, 2016, and announce his conclusion that the case should be closed without prosecution.

	...There is a well-established process for other officials to step in when a conflict requires the recusal of the Attorney General. On July 5, however, the Director announced his own conclusions about the nation's most sensitive criminal investigation, without the authorization of duly appointed Justice Department leaders.

	Compounding the error, the Director ignored another longstanding principle: we do not hold press conferences to release derogatory information about the subject of a declined criminal investigation. Derogatory information sometimes is disclosed in the course of criminal investigations and prosecutions, but we never release it gratuitously. The Director laid out his version of the facts for the news media as if it were a closing argument, but without a trial. It is a textbook example of what federal prosecutors and agents are taught not to do.

	...Concerning his letter to the Congress on October 28, 2016, the Director cast his decision as a choice between whether he would "speak" about the decision to investigate the newly-discovered email messages or "conceal" it. "Conceal" is a loaded term that misstates the issue. When federal agents and prosecutors quietly open a criminal investigation, we are not concealing anything; we are simply following the longstanding policy that we refrain from publicizing non-public information. In that context, silence is not concealment.

	...Although the President has the power to remove an FBI director, the decision should not be taken lightly. I agree with the nearly unanimous opinions of former Department officials. The way the Director handled the conclusion of the email investigation was wrong. As a result, the FBI is unlikely to regain public and congressional trust until it has a Director who understands the gravity of the mistakes and pledges never to repeat them. Having refused to admit his errors, the Director cannot be expected to implement the necessary corrective actions.


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/09/us/politics/james-comey-fired-fbi.html
	F.B.I. Director James Comey is Fired by Trump
	May 9, 2017


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/onpolitics/2017/05/09/full-text-trump-letter-comey-firing/101491982/
	Dear Director Comey:

	I have received the attached letters from the Attorney General and Deputy Attorney General of the United States recommending your dismissal as the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. I have accepted their recommendation and you are hereby terminated and removed from office, effective immediately.

	While I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless concur with the judgement of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the Bureau.

	It is essential that we find new leadership for the FBI that restores public trust and confidence in its vital law enforcement mission.

	I wish you the best of luck in your future endeavors.

	Donald J. Trump


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/05/18/rod-rosenstein-james-coming-senators-briefing-238562
	Senators: Rosenstein knew Comey would be fired before writing memo

	Rod Rosenstein already knew James Comey was going to be fired as FBI director when he wrote the three-page memo that the White House would later assert had sealed Comey’s fate, multiple senators said Thursday as they left a highly-anticipated briefing with the deputy attorney general.

	Rosenstein learned Comey was being ousted on May 8, according to Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), but the memo is dated May 9 — the day the firing took place.

	...“Director Comey was very unpopular with most people. I actually thought when I made that decision — and I also got a very strong recommendation, as you know, from the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein,” Trump said. “He had the very poor performance [before Congress]. … I believe that’s why the deputy attorney general went out and wrote his very, very strong letter.”


https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/11/president_trumps_full_interview_with_lester_holt.html
	HOLT: Monday you met with the Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.

	TRUMP: Right.

	HOLT: Did you ask for a recommendation?

	TRUMP: What I did is I was going to fire Comey. My decision. It was not...

	HOLT: You had made the decision before they came into your office (ph).

	TRUMP: I -- I was going to fire Comey. I -- there's no good time to do it, by the way.

	They...

	HOLT: Because in your letter, you said...

	(CROSSTALK)

	TRUMP: They -- they were...

	HOLT: ...I -- I accepted -- accepted their recommendations.

	TRUMP: Yeah, well, they also...


https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/05/10/readout-president-donald-j-trumps-meeting-foreign-minister-sergey-lavrov
	May 10, 2017
	Readout of President Donald J. Trump’s Meeting with Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov of Russia

	President Donald J. Trump met today with Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov of Russia, following on the visit of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to Moscow last month. President Trump emphasized the need to work together to end the conflict in Syria, in particular, underscoring the need for Russia to rein in the Assad regime, Iran, and Iranian proxies. The President raised Ukraine, and expressed his Administration’s commitment to remain engaged in resolving the conflict and stressed Russia’s responsibility to fully implement the Minsk agreements.  He also raised the possibility of broader cooperation on resolving conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere. The President further emphasized his desire to build a better relationship between the United States and Russia.


http://ktla.com/2017/05/10/trump-describes-meeting-with-russias-foreign-minister-ambassador-as-very-very-good/
	Trump Describes Meeting With Russia’s Foreign Minister, Ambassador as ‘Very, Very Good’

	Posted 10:52 AM, May 10, 2017

	President Donald Trump hosted Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Russian Ambassador to the US Sergey Kislyak at the White House Wednesday amid the swirling investigation of Russian contacts with Trump campaign and transition officials in 2016 and Tuesday’s firing of FBI Director James Comey, who was handling the probe.

	...The Russian Embassy tweeted a photo of Trump shaking the hand of Russia’s ambassador in what appears to be the Oval Office. Current and former US intelligence officials have accused Kislyak of being a top spy and recruiter of spies, a notion that Russian officials have dismissed.

	A White House statement after the meeting omitted any mention of Kislyak’s presence, instead focusing on Trump’s conversation with Lavrov, which the President described as “very, very good.”

	The Russian Embassy had sent out the photo as Trump was set to meet Lavrov on Wednesday. The meeting was the highest-level encounter between the US administration and Moscow since Trump’s inauguration.

	According to the statement, Trump emphasized the need for the US and Russia to work together to end violence in Syria and Ukraine, floated the prospect of US-Russia cooperation on resolving Middle East conflicts and returned to a campaign theme by emphasizing his desire for better relations with Moscow.

	Lavrov denies election meddling

	Lavrov, who started off a news conference at the Russian Embassy by remarking that “relations between our countries … are not in the best condition,” also fielded several questions about Russia’s alleged meddling in the 2016 race to obvious irritation. “There is not a single fact (or) compelling evidence regarding Russia’s intervention,” he said.

	At another point, he mocked the idea, saying it must be “humiliating for the American people to realize the Russian Federation is controlling the situation in the United States.”

	...Alleged ties to Russia

	Former Acting Attorney General Sally Yates said Monday that she alerted the White House earlier this year that then-Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn could be “essentially blackmailed by the Russians.”

	Her testimony pushed the story of the Trump campaign’s alleged ties to Russia back into the headlines.

	In an interview last week, Trump once again refused to blame Russia for attempting to influence the 2016 election through hacking and other means, despite an overwhelming consensus by US law enforcement and intelligence agencies.

	Trump and Putin also spoke by phone last week about the war in Syria for the first time since Trump ordered a missile strike against a Syrian government air base last month after an alleged chemical weapons attack by the Syrian regime.

	The US missile strike angered Moscow and led Lavrov to declare that “it’s sad how damaging this is to the already bad relations between US and Russia.”

	...In 2009, under then-President Barack Obama, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton famously presented Lavrov with a “reset” button to symbolically restart US-Russia relations. Unfortunately, instead of “reset” the Russian word on the button read “overcharged.”

	Diplomatically, Lavrov said he would keep the button on his desk. The attempt at a reset didn’t work


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/2017/05/11/russians-fail-disclose-its-official-photographer-works-tass-news-agency/101543498/
	Kremlin outfoxes White House over photos of Trump meeting with Russians

	...The widespread distribution of the Russian photos was a public relations coup for the Russians, who have been trying for several years to secure an Oval Office meeting for its foreign minister as a counterpoint to the strained relations between the two countries. Normally, such White House meetings are reserved for heads of state.

	Because of strained relations, it was Lavrov's first visit to the White House since 2013, despite lobbying efforts by the Russians, according to Politico, which reported that Trump agreed to receive him in the Oval Office at the request of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

	The issue is particularly sensitive because of the presence at the meeting of Kislyak, who has been at the center of several controversies involving administration officials, including now fired National Security Adviser Michael Flynn and Attorney General Jeff Sessions. The Russian embassy even tweeted a photograph of Trump smiling broadly as he put his arm around the diplomat while shaking his hand in the Oval Office.

	Flynn was fired in February for lying to Vice President Mike Pence by denying that he had discussed the issue of U.S. sanctions with Kislyak. Sessions recused himself from any investigations involving the Trump administration and Russia after acknowledging he failed to tell senators during his confirmation hearing that he previously met with he diplomat.

	In addition, Kislyak was brought into the Trump Tower in New York in December out of the sight of reporters for a meeting with Flynn and Jared Kushner, Trump's son-in-law and now senior advisor, according to The New York Times.


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/watch-kissinger-side-trump-delivers-first-person-response-comey-firing/
	May 10, 2017

	The same day President Donald Trump was meeting with Russia’s foreign minister at the White House — and less than a day after firing former FBI director James Comey — the press pool captured Trump posing in the Oval Office with Henry Kissinger.

	According to the pool report, journalists had expected to find Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov at the president’s side, but instead was invited to an unannounced meeting with Kissinger, who served as secretary of state under Richard Nixon.

	Trump said he had met with Kissinger to talk “about Russia and various other matters.”

	...Trump added that Kissinger has “been a friend of mine for a long time.” Shortly after winning the 2016 presidential election, Trump met Kissinger in New York to discuss “events and issues around the world.”

	The press had not been permitted to witness the meeting with Lavrov, which was documented in handout photos provided by the Russian government.

	A CBS reporter caught Russian President Vladimir Putin at a hockey game in Sochi to ask for his reaction and whether Tuesday’s firing would affect the relationship between the two countries.

	“There will be no effect,” Putin said, with a translator at his side. “Your question looks very funny for me. Don’t be angry with me. We have nothing to do with that.”

	“President Trump is acting in accordance with his competence, in accordance with his law and Constitution,” he added. 


http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/334272-trump-told-russians-firing-nut-job-comey-eased-pressure-on-him-report
	Trump told Russians firing 'nut job' Comey eased pressure

	President Trump called former FBI chief James Comey a "nut job" during an Oval Office meeting with two Russian officials, telling them his firing relieved “great pressure,” The New York Times reported Friday.

	"I just fired the head of the F.B.I. He was crazy, a real nut job," Trump said, according to a report based on a summary of the meeting obtained by the Times. 


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/11/opinion/trump-russia-fbi-investigation.html
	The Trump-Russia Nexus
	By THE EDITORIAL BOARD
	MAY 11, 2017

	The acting director of the F.B.I., Andrew McCabe, told Congress on Thursday that President Trump’s firing of James Comey has not derailed the agency’s investigation into possible collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign. Which is good news. Despite Mr. Trump’s assertion that the idea of collusion is “a total hoax,” and despite many unknowns, the links continue to pile up.


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/863007411132649473
	James Comey better hope that there are no "tapes" of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!
	5:26 AM - 12 May 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/863014620516233216
	When James Clapper himself, and virtually everyone else with knowledge of the witch hunt, says there is no collusion, when does it end?
	5:54 AM - 12 May 2017 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/trump-revealed-highly-classified-information-to-russian-foreign-minister-and-ambassador/2017/05/15/530c172a-3960-11e7-9e48-c4f199710b69_story.html
	Trump revealed highly classified information to Russian foreign minister and ambassador
	By Greg Miller and Greg Jaffe May 15


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/864452996129853444
	I have been asking Director Comey & others, from the beginning of my administration, to find the LEAKERS in the intelligence community.....
	5:10 AM - 16 May 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/873879934040780801
	I believe the James Comey leaks will be far more prevalent than anyone ever thought possible. Totally illegal? Very 'cowardly!'
	5:29 AM - 11 Jun 2017 


Trump reveals that he still thinks Comey let Clinton off the hook. He expresses his concerns with the upcoming judiciary committee hearing, calling out former Obama official Susan Rice for refusing to testify on unmasking and voicing his suspicion that former acting AG Yates is a source of classified leaks. He seems to view the criticism of his handling of the Flynn controversy as hypocritical, unfair, or embarrassing. Trump downplays Yate's testimony, which reveals Yates believed Flynn was compromised and her warnings to the White House were urgent. Yates says that "if nothing was done" after the warnings it would be "concerning."

Clapper confirms that foreign allies passed the U.S. intelligence describing "suspicious contacts" between Trump advisors and Russian intelligence agents. Trump asserts that Clapper testified there is "no evidence" of collusion between Russia and Trump.

The day of Yate's and Clapper's hearing, Rosenstein learns that Comey is to be fired. The next day, Rosenstein publishes a memo recommending Comey be fired for reasons that tend to criticize Comey for being too hard on Clinton. Trump had criticized Comey for going too easy on Clinton 6 days earlier. Trump cites the memo as the reason he fired Comey, saying he believes Rosenstein wrote it because of Comey's "poor performance before Congress." When asked later if he asked Rosenstein for a recommendation to fire Comey, Trump doesn't answer but says he was going to fire Comey anyway.

In an apparent attempt to intimidate him, Trump warns Comey that he "better hope that there are no 'tapes' of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press." It is unclear if Trump is talking about leaks of their conversations or leaks in general. Trump continues to rant about leakers, accusing Comey of being a leaker and charging that he had long ago asked Comey to "find the LEAKERS in the intelligence community."

In Comey's termination letter, Trump stresses that Comey informed him "on three separate occasions" that he is not under investigation. The next day, Trump meets with Russian ambassadors Kislyak and Lavrov in the Oval Office. Apparently, Trump hoped to make deals for closer cooperation and improved relations between the United States and Russia. Trump described the meeting as "very, very good."

Trump posits that Comey will leak more than anybody could possibly imagine, in such a way as to be potentially "totally illegal" but definitely "very cowardly."

Trump told Comey he wanted his "loyalty," he hoped Comey could "see his way to letting Flynn go," and asked Comey to "lift the cloud" of the Russia investigation over his dealmaking.

For the question of "what was T






------





https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/859601184285491201
	FBI Director Comey was the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad deeds! The phony...
	7:51 PM - 2 May 2017 


https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/859604996236742656
	...Trump/Russia story was an excuse used by the Democrats as justification for losing the election. Perhaps Trump just ran a great campaign?



https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/11/president_trumps_full_interview_with_lester_holt.html
	TRUMP: Not that I know of. Look, I want to find out if there was a problem with an election having to do with Russia. Or by the way any -- but -- any -- anybody else. Any other country.

	And I want that to be so strong and so good. And I want it to happen.

	I also want to have a really competent, capable director. He's not. He's a show boater.

	He's not my man or not my man. I didn't appoint him. He was appointed long before me.



https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/11/president_trumps_full_interview_with_lester_holt.html
	HOLT: Were you angry with James Comey when he went public and said he can't support your unsubstantiated charges of wiretapping -- that your -- your predecessor wire tapped you?

	TRUMP: I was surprised he said it, but I wasn't angry. There's a big thing going on right now which is spying. And it's -- you can scroll to anything you want.










http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	CHAFFETZ: You did not look at testimony that Hillary Clinton gave in the United State Congress, both the House and the Senate.

	...Did you review and look at those transcripts as to the intent of your recommendation.

	COMEY: I’m sure my folks did. I did not.


	...DESJARLAIS: OK. Do you know if she asked her whether she stands by the fact she that said she just used one device and that was for her convenience?

	COMEY: I don’t know. I know they established, in talking to her, she used many devices during her four years. So I don’t know whether they asked her specifically about that statement. That’s easy to check, though.

	DESJARLAIS: OK. I guess my point is, you’re trying to get inside the head of Hillary Clinton in this investigation and know whether there was intent. And so we all know what she told the people. That has been well-documented.

	She said that she did not do those things, that she did not send or receive classified e-mails, that she used one server and one device for her convenience.

	And since then, I think even in your statement, you recognize that those were not correct. Is that fair?

	COMEY: I really don’t want to get in the business of trying to parse and judge her public statements. And so I think I’ve tried to avoid doing that sitting here.

	DESJARLAIS: Why do you feel that’s important?

	COMEY: Because what matters to me is what did she say to the FBI.


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	SEN. DIANNE FEINSTEIN: Thanks very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Comey, I just want you to know that I have great respect for you. Senator Cornyn and I sit on the judiciary committee and we have the occasion to have you before us. You're a man of strength and I regret the situations we all find ourselves in. I just want to say that. Let me begin with one overarching question. Why do you believe you were fired?

	COMEY: I guess I don't know for sure. I believe — I think the president, at his word, that I was fired because of the Russia investigation. Something about the way I was conducting it, the president felt created pressure on him that he wanted to relieve. Again, I didn't know that at the time. I watched his interview. I read the press accounts of his conversations. I take him at his word there. Look, I could be wrong. Maybe he's saying something that's not true. I take him at his word, at least based on what I know now. 








http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	COMEY: ...ignorance of the law is no excuse, but here’s the distinction. You have to have general criminal intent. You don’t need to know what particular statute you’re violating, but you must be aware of the generally wrongful nature of your conduct…


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	COMEY: In our system of law, there’s a thing called mens rea. It’s important to know what you did and when you did it. This Latin phrase “mens rea” means, “What were you thinking?”

	We don’t want to put people in jail unless we prove that they knew they were doing something they shouldn’t do.

	...At the time Congress passed that statute in 1917, there was a lot of concern in the House and Senate about whether that was going to violate the American tradition of requiring that before you go and lock somebody up, you proved they knew they were doing something wrong. So there was a lot of concern about it.


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	FEINSTEIN: Now, here's the question, you're big. You're strong. I know the oval office, and I know what happens to people when they walk in. There is a certain amount of intimidation. But why didn't you stop and say, Mr. President, this is wrong. I cannot discuss this with you.

	COMEY: It's a great question. Maybe if I were stronger, I would have. I was so stunned by the conversation that I just took in. The only thing I could think to say, because I was playing in my mind -- because I could remember every word he said -- I was playing in my mind, what should my response be? That's why I carefully chose the words. Look, I've seen the tweet about tapes. Lordy, I hope there are tapes. I remember saying, “I agree he is a good guy,” as a way of saying, I'm not agreeing with what you asked me to do. Again, maybe other people would be stronger in that circumstance. That's how Ed myself. I hope I'll never have another opportunity. Maybe if I did it again, I'd do it better. 

	...FEINSTEIN: You told the president, I would see what we could do. What did you mean?

	COMEY: It was kind of a cowardly way of trying to avoid telling him, we're not going to do that. That I would see what we could do. It was a way of kind of getting off the phone, frankly, and then I turned and handed it to the acting deputy attorney general. 

	...RUBIO: At the time, did you say something to the president about, that is not an appropriate request, or did you tell the white house counsel, it's not an appropriate request? Someone needs to tell the president he can't do these things.

	COMEY: I didn't, no.

	RUBIO: Why?

	COMEY: I don't know. I think -- as I said earlier, I think the circumstances were such that it was -- I was a bit stunned and didn't have the presence of mind. I don't know. I don't want to make you sound like I'm captain courageous. I don't know if I would have said to the president with the presence of mind, sir, that's wrong. In the moment, it didn't come to my mind. What came to my mind is be careful what you say. I said, I agree Flynn is a good guy. 




	...COLLINS: I'd like to now turn to the conversations with the president about Michael Flynn, which had been discussed at great length.

	First, let me make very clear that the president never should have cleared the room and he never should have asked you, as you reported, to let it go, to let the investigation go. But I remain puzzled by your response. Michael Flynn is a good guy. You could have said, Mr. President, this meeting is inappropriate. This response could compromise the investigation. You should not be making such a request. It's fundamental to the operation of our government, the FBI be insulated from this kind of political pressure. You talked a bit today about that you were stunned by the president making the request. But my question to you is later on, upon reflection, did you go to anyone at the department of justice and ask them to call the white house counsel's office and explain that the president had to have a far better understanding and appreciation of his role vis-à-vis the FBI?

	COMEY: In general, I did. I spoke to the attorney general and spoke to the new deputy attorney general, Mr. Rosenstein, when he took office and explained my serious concern about the way in which the president is interacting, especially with the FBI. As I said in my testimony, I told the attorney general, it can't happen that you get kicked out of the room and the president talks to me. Why didn't we raise the specific? It was of investigative interest to figure out, what just happened with the president's request? I wouldn't want to alert the white house it had happened until we figured out what we were going to do with it investigatively.

	COLLINS: Your testimony was that you went to attorney general sessions and said, don't ever leave me alone with him again. Are you saying that you also told him that he had made a request that you let it go with regard to part of the investigation of Michael Flynn?

	COMEY: No. I specifically did not. I did not. 


	...FEINSTEIN: You have the president of the United States asking you to stop an investigation that is an important investigation. What was the response of your colleagues?

	COMEY: I think they were as shocked and troubled by it as I was. Some said things that led me to believe that. I don't remember exactly. But the reaction was similar to mine. They're all experienced people who never experienced such a thing, so they were very concerned. Then the conversation turned to about, so what should we do with this information? That was a struggle for us. Because we are the leaders of the FBI, so it's been reported to us, and I heard it and now shared it with the leaders of the FBI, our conversation was, should we share this with any senior officials at the justice department? Our primary concern was, we can't infect the investigative team. We don't want the agents and analysts working on this to know the president of the united States has asked, and when it comes from the president, I took it as a direction, to get rid of this investigation because we're not going to follow that request. So we decided, we have to keep it away from our troops.

	Is there anyone else we ought to tell at the justice department? We considered whether to tell -- the attorney general said we believe rightly he was shortly going to recuse. There was no other senate confirmed leaders in the justice department at that point. The deputy attorney general was Mr. Boente, acting shortly in the seat. We decided the best move would be to hold it, keep it in a box, document it, as we'd already done, and this investigation is going to do on. Figure out what to do with it down the road. Is there a way to corroborate it? It was our word against the president's. No way to corroborate this. My view of this changed when the prospect of tapes was raised. That's how we thought about it then. 





------








http://fortune.com/2016/07/15/hillary-clinton-email-scandal-poll/
	Republicans are also more likely than Democrats to say Clinton's email use is a major problem, 85 percent to 22 percent. But 49 percent of Democrats say it's a minor problem, while just 29 percent don't think it's a problem at all.








------


...

probably: discredit/politicize USIC
ruin USIC capabilities
politicize/cast doubt on Russian methods


I guess it does make sense to:

politicize CIA/narrative of Russian intervention as much as possible so that Repulicans, who typically like CIA/hate Russia, are reversed

utterly destroy the narrative and USIC by reveailing Russia narrative to be fake (dossier, intel leak thing, maybe hacking, others?) and USIC top levels to be corrupt and scheming

Republicans continue to hate CIA distrust Russia narratives

liberals confused, defeated, maybe feel betrayed by USIC 

key is that Republicans tend to be more bullheaded, so this wouldn't work as well the other way around

would likely rely, in their view, on liberals soul searching and tears to finish off themselves

fuck I'm cold

this has gotten to my head lol

but best case scenario for them is both Republicans and Democrats end up distrusting USIC


Politicizing any idea, event, institution, person, thing, etc. makes it easier for propagandists to control public perception around said thing.


http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/first-read/democrats-now-give-cia-higher-marks-republicans-do-s-really-n703206



------






http://www.nationalreview.com/article/448480/james-comey-testimony-obstruction-justice-not-proven


------


Trump asking Comey to stay:

Trump might know Comey is known to threaten to quit? And that this causes problems...

Trump also says his advisors told him good things about Comey iirc?

And Trump got a "favor" from Comey, at least in his view


------


Comey wants people to think Trump is dirty:



http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	WARNER: ...Now you've had extensive experience at the department of justice and at the FBI. You've worked under presidents of both parties. What was about that meeting that led you to determine that you needed to start putting down a written record?

	COMEY: A combination of things. I think the circumstances, the subject matter, and the person I was interacting with. Circumstances, first, I was alone with the president of the United States, or the president-elect, soon to be president. The subject matter I was talking about matters that touch on the FBI's core responsibility, and that relate to the president, president-elect personally, and then the nature of the person. I was honestly concerned he might lie about the nature of our meeting so I thought it important to document. 




	WARNER: ...you should be prepared to assure then President-elect Trump that the FBI was not investigating him personally. Now, I understand that your leadership team, agreed with that but was that a unanimous decision? Was there any debate about that?

	COMEY: Wasn't unanimous. One of the members of the leadership team had a view you that although it was technically true we did not have a counter-intelligence file case open on then President-elect Trump. His concern was because we're looking at the potential, again, that's the subject of the investigation, coordination between the campaign and Russia, because it was President Trump, President-elect Trump's campaign, this person's view was inevitably his behavior, his conduct will fall within the scope of that work. And so he was reluctant to make the statement. I disagreed. I thought it was fair to say what was literally true. There was not a counterintelligence investigation of Mr. Trump, and I decided in the moment to say it, given the nature of our conversation.

	WARNER: At that moment in time, did you ever revisit that as in the subsequent sessions?

	COMEY: With the FBI leadership team? Sure. And the leader had that view that didn't change. His view was still that it was probably although literally true, his concern was it could be misleading, because the nature of the investigation was such that it might well touch, obviously it would touch, the campaign, and the person that headed the campaign would be the candidate, and so that was his view throughout. 



	WARNER: ...What was your impression, and what did you mean by this notion of a patronage relationship?

	COMEY: Well, my impression, and again it's my impression, I could always be wrong but my common sense told me what was going on is, either he had concluded or someone had told him that you didn't, you've already asked Comey to stay, and you didn't get anything for it.

	And that the dinner was an effort to build a relationship, in fact, he asked specifically, of loyalty in the context of asking me to stay. As I said, what was odd about that is we'd already talked twice about it by that point and he said I very much hope you'll stay. In fact, I just remembered sitting a third, when you've seen the. IC tour of me walking across the blue room, and what the president whispered in my ear was "I really look forward to working with you." So after those encounters -- 

	WARNER: That was a few days before your firing.

	COMEY: On the Sunday after the inauguration. The next Friday I have dinner and the president begins by wanting to talk about my job and so I'm sitting there thinking wait a minute three times we've already, you've already asked me to stay or talked about me staying. My common sense, again I could be wrong but my common sense told me what's going on here is, he's looking to get something in exchange for granting my request to stay in the job. 


-----


Comey interprets Trump saying he was fired because of the Russia investigation:

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	SEN. DIANNE FEINSTEIN: Thanks very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Comey, I just want you to know that I have great respect for you. Senator Cornyn and I sit on the judiciary committee and we have the occasion to have you before us. You're a man of strength and I regret the situations we all find ourselves in. I just want to say that. Let me begin with one overarching question. Why do you believe you were fired?

	COMEY: I guess I don't know for sure. I believe — I think the president, at his word, that I was fired because of the Russia investigation. Something about the way I was conducting it, the president felt created pressure on him that he wanted to relieve. Again, I didn't know that at the time. I watched his interview. I read the press accounts of his conversations. I take him at his word there. Look, I could be wrong. Maybe he's saying something that's not true. I take him at his word, at least based on what I know now. 

	...FEINSTEIN: Do you believe the Russia investigation played a role?

	COMEY: In why I was fired?

	FEINSTEIN: Yes.

	COMEY: Yes. I've seen the president say so. 



	WYDEN: How would you characterize Attorney General Sessions's adherence to his recusal? In particular, with regard to his involvement in your firing, which the president has acknowledged was because of the Russian investigation.

	COMEY: That's a question I can't answer. I think it is a reasonable question. If, as the president said, I was fired because of the Russia investigation, why was the attorney general involved in that chain? I don't know. So I don't have an answer for the question. 



	HEINRICH: Fair enough. Told the reporter he never did that. You've testified that the president asked for your loyalty in that dinner. White house denies that. A lot of this comes down to who should we believe. Do you want to say anything as to why we should believe you?

	COMEY: My mother raised me not to say things like this about myself so I'm not going to. I think people should look at the whole body of my testimony. As I used to say to juries, when I talked about a witness, you can't cherry pick it. You can't say, I like these things he said but on this, he's a ten liar. You have to take it together. 


	HEINRICH: Fair enough. Told the reporter he never did that. You've testified that the president asked for your loyalty in that dinner. White house denies that. A lot of this comes down to who should we believe. Do you want to say anything as to why we should believe you?

	COMEY: My mother raised me not to say things like this about myself so I'm not going to. I think people should look at the whole body of my testimony. As I used to say to juries, when I talked about a witness, you can't cherry pick it. You can't say, I like these things he said but on this, he's a ten liar. You have to take it together. 

>:D


----

Comey interprets Trump's comments as asking him to fire Flynn:



http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	FEINSTEIN: Let's go to the Flynn issue. The senator outlined, “I hope you could see your way to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go.” But you also said in your written remarks, and I quote, that you “had understood the president to be requesting that we drop any investigation of Flynn in connection with false statements about his conversations with the Russian ambassador in December,”. Please go into that with more detail.

	COMEY: Well, the context and the president's word are what led me to that conclusion. As I said in my statement, I could be wrong, but Flynn had been forced to resign the day before. And the controversy around general Flynn at that point in time was centered on whether he lied to the vice president about his nature of conversations with the Russians, whether he had been candid with others in the course of that. So that happens on the day before. On the 1, the president makes reference to that. I understood what he wanted me to do was drop any investigation connected to Flynn's account of his conversations with the Russians. 


	RUBIO: And in that meeting, as you understood it, he was asking not about the general Russia investigation, he was asking specifically about the jeopardy that Flynn was in himself?

	COMEY: That's how I understood it. Yes, sir. 

	RUBIO: As you perceived it, while he hoped you did away with it, you perceived it as an order, given the setting, the position and some of the circumstances?

	COMEY: Yes. 



	RUBIO: The president's wishes were known to them, certainly by the next day when he had a press conference with the prime minister. Going back, the three requests were, number one, be loyal. Number two, let the Mike Flynn thing go. He is a good guy, been treated unfairly. Number three, can you please tell the American people what these leaders in congress already know, which you already know and what you told me three times, that I'm not under personally under investigation.

	COMEY: That's right. 



	WYDEN: Your testimony was that the president's request about Flynn could infect investigation. Had the president got what he wanted and what he asked of you, what would have been the effect on the investigation?

	COMEY: We would have closed any investigation of general Flynn in connection with his statements and encounters -- statements about encounters with Russians in the late part of December. We would have dropped an open criminal investigation. 




------

Comey excuses for not correcting Trump:


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	FEINSTEIN: Now, here's the question, you're big. You're strong. I know the oval office, and I know what happens to people when they walk in. There is a certain amount of intimidation. But why didn't you stop and say, Mr. President, this is wrong. I cannot discuss this with you.

	COMEY: It's a great question. Maybe if I were stronger, I would have. I was so stunned by the conversation that I just took in. The only thing I could think to say, because I was playing in my mind -- because I could remember every word he said -- I was playing in my mind, what should my response be? That's why I carefully chose the words. Look, I've seen the tweet about tapes. Lordy, I hope there are tapes. I remember saying, “I agree he is a good guy,” as a way of saying, I'm not agreeing with what you asked me to do. Again, maybe other people would be stronger in that circumstance. That's how Ed myself. I hope I'll never have another opportunity. Maybe if I did it again, I'd do it better. 




	FEINSTEIN: You told the president, I would see what we could do. What did you mean?

	COMEY: It was kind of a cowardly way of trying to avoid telling him, we're not going to do that. That I would see what we could do. It was a way of kind of getting off the phone, frankly, and then I turned and handed it to the acting deputy attorney general. 


Or Comey could tell him that's innapropriate...


	RUBIO: At the time, did you say something to the president about, that is not an appropriate request, or did you tell the white house counsel, it's not an appropriate request? Someone needs to tell the president he can't do these things.

	COMEY: I didn't, no.

	RUBIO: Why?

	COMEY: I don't know. I think -- as I said earlier, I think the circumstances were such that it was -- I was a bit stunned and didn't have the presence of mind. I don't know. I don't want to make you sound like I'm captain courageous. I don't know if I would have said to the president with the presence of mind, sir, that's wrong. In the moment, it didn't come to my mind. What came to my mind is be careful what you say. I said, I agree Flynn is a good guy. 



	COLLINS: I'd like to now turn to the conversations with the president about Michael Flynn, which had been discussed at great length.

	First, let me make very clear that the president never should have cleared the room and he never should have asked you, as you reported, to let it go, to let the investigation go. But I remain puzzled by your response. Michael Flynn is a good guy. You could have said, Mr. President, this meeting is inappropriate. This response could compromise the investigation. You should not be making such a request. It's fundamental to the operation of our government, the FBI be insulated from this kind of political pressure. You talked a bit today about that you were stunned by the president making the request. But my question to you is later on, upon reflection, did you go to anyone at the department of justice and ask them to call the white house counsel's office and explain that the president had to have a far better understanding and appreciation of his role vis-à-vis the FBI?

	COMEY: In general, I did. I spoke to the attorney general and spoke to the new deputy attorney general, Mr. Rosenstein, when he took office and explained my serious concern about the way in which the president is interacting, especially with the FBI. As I said in my testimony, I told the attorney general, it can't happen that you get kicked out of the room and the president talks to me. Why didn't we raise the specific? It was of investigative interest to figure out, what just happened with the president's request? I wouldn't want to alert the white house it had happened until we figured out what we were going to do with it investigatively.

	COLLINS: Your testimony was that you went to attorney general sessions and said, don't ever leave me alone with him again. Are you saying that you also told him that he had made a request that you let it go with regard to part of the investigation of Michael Flynn?

	COMEY: No. I specifically did not. I did not. 


------

what is cloud



FEINSTEIN: You describe two phone calls that you received from president trump. One on March 30th and one on April 11. He, quote, described the Russia investigation as a cloud that was impairing his ability, end quote, as president, and asked you, quote, to lift the cloud, end quote. How did you interpret that? What did you believe he wanted you to do?

COMEY: I interpreted that as he was frustrated that the Russia investigation was taking up so much time and energy. I think he meant of the executive branch, but in the public square in general. It was making it difficult for him to focus on other priorities of his. But what he asked me was actually narrowing than that. I think what he meant by the cloud — and, again, I could be wrong — but the entire investigation is taking up oxygen and making it hard for me to focus on what I want to focus on. The ask was to get it out that I, the president, am not personally under investigation.

FEINSTEIN: After April 11th, did he ask you more ever about the Russia investigation? Did he ask you any questions?

COMEY: We never spoke again after April 11th.

FEINSTEIN: You told the president, I would see what we could do. What did you mean?

COMEY: It was kind of a cowardly way of trying to avoid telling him, we're not going to do that. That I would see what we could do. It was a way of kind of getting off the phone, frankly, and then I turned and handed it to the acting deputy attorney general.

FEINSTEIN: So I want to go into that. Who did you talk with about that, lifting the cloud, stop the investigation back at the FBI, and what was their response?

COMEY: The FBI, during one of the two conversations — I'm not remembering exactly — I think the first, my chief of staff was sitting in front of me and heard my end of the conversation because the president's call was a surprise. I discussed the lifting the cloud and the request with the senior leadership team who, typically, and I think in all the circumstances, was the deputy director, my chief of staff, the general counsel, the deputy director's chief counsel and, I think in a number of circumstances, the number three in the FBI and a few of the conversations included the head of the national security branch. The group of us that lead the FBI when it comes to national security.

FEINSTEIN: You have the president of the United States asking you to stop an investigation that is an important investigation. What was the response of your colleagues?

COMEY: I think they were as shocked and troubled by it as I was. Some said things that led me to believe that. I don't remember exactly. But the reaction was similar to mine. They're all experienced people who never experienced such a thing, so they were very concerned. Then the conversation turned to about, so what should we do with this information? That was a struggle for us. Because we are the leaders of the FBI, so it's been reported to us, and I heard it and now shared it with the leaders of the FBI, our conversation was, should we share this with any senior officials at the justice department? Our primary concern was, we can't infect the investigative team. We don't want the agents and analysts working on this to know the president of the united States has asked, and when it comes from the president, I took it as a direction, to get rid of this investigation because we're not going to follow that request. So we decided, we have to keep it away from our troops.

Is there anyone else we ought to tell at the justice department? We considered whether to tell -- the attorney general said we believe rightly he was shortly going to recuse. There was no other senate confirmed leaders in the justice department at that point. The deputy attorney general was Mr. Boente, acting shortly in the seat. We decided the best move would be to hold it, keep it in a box, document it, as we'd already done, and this investigation is going to do on. Figure out what to do with it down the road. Is there a way to corroborate it? It was our word against the president's. No way to corroborate this. My view of this changed when the prospect of tapes was raised. That's how we thought about it then.

FEINSTEIN: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.


So did Comey interpret the request as asking to get out that he was not under investigation? or "chill" the invetigation? or to "get it out there" and clear the air?



http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	FEINSTEIN: You describe two phone calls that you received from president trump. One on March 30th and one on April 11. He, quote, described the Russia investigation as a cloud that was impairing his ability, end quote, as president, and asked you, quote, to lift the cloud, end quote. How did you interpret that? What did you believe he wanted you to do?

	COMEY: I interpreted that as he was frustrated that the Russia investigation was taking up so much time and energy. I think he meant of the executive branch, but in the public square in general. It was making it difficult for him to focus on other priorities of his. But what he asked me was actually narrowing than that. I think what he meant by the cloud — and, again, I could be wrong — but the entire investigation is taking up oxygen and making it hard for me to focus on what I want to focus on. The ask was to get it out that I, the president, am not personally under investigation. 



	RUBIO: Are those the only two instances in which that back and forth happened, where the president was basically saying, and I'm paraphrasing here, it's okay. Do the Russia investigation. I hope it all comes out. I have nothing to do with anything Russia. It'd be great if it all came out, people around me were doing things that were wrong?

	COMEY: Yes. As I recorded it accurately there. That was the sentiment he was expressing. Yes, sir. 





------


fucking over the president


http://www.npr.org/2017/06/07/531643428/comey-opening-statement-for-senate-intelligence-hearing-annotated
	The IC leadership thought it important, for a variety of reasons, to alert the incoming President to the existence of this material, even though it was salacious and unverified. Among those reasons were: (1) we knew the media was about to publicly report the material and we believed the IC should not keep knowledge of the material and its imminent release from the President-Elect; and (2) to the extent there was some effort to compromise an incoming President, we could blunt any such effort with a defensive briefing.

	The Director of National Intelligence asked that I personally do this portion of the briefing because I was staying in my position and because the material implicated the FBI’s counter-intelligence responsibilities. We also agreed I would do it alone to minimize potential embarrassment to the President-Elect. Although we agreed it made sense for me to do the briefing, the FBI’s leadership and I were concerned that the briefing might create a situation where a new President came into office uncertain about whether the FBI was conducting a counter-intelligence investigation of his personal conduct. 




http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	COLLINS: Did you limit that statement to counterintelligence invest -- investigations, or were you talking about any FBI investigation?

	COMEY: I didn't use the term counterintelligence. I was briefing him about salacious and unverified material. It was in a context of that that he had a strong and defensive reaction about that not being true. My reading of it was it was important for me to assure him we were not person investigating him. So the context then was actually narrower, focused on what I just talked to him about. It was very important because it was, first, true, and second, I was worried very much about being in kind of a Jay Hoover type situation. I didn't want him thinking I was briefing him on this to sort of hang it over him in some way. I was briefing him on it because, because we had been told by the media it was about to launch. We didn't want to be keeping that from him. He needed to know this was being said. I was very keen not to leave him with an impression that the bureau was trying to do something to him. So that's the context in which I said, sir, we're not personally investigating you. 





	RUBIO: What he was asking you to do, would you have done here today?

	COMEY: Correct. Yes, sir. 



	COLLINS: Then on the January 27th dinner, you told the president that he should be careful about asking you to investigate because, “you might create a narrative that we are investigating him personally, which we weren't.” Again, were you limiting that statement to counterintelligence investigations, or more broadly, such as a criminal investigation?

	COMEY: I didn't modify the word investigation. It was, again, he was reacting strongly against the unverified material, saying I'm tempted to order you to investigate it. In the context of that, I said, sir, be careful about it. I might create a narrative we're investigating you personally. 



So Comey created perception that Trump was under investigation, says he would clear him, says "careful if we do anything about it we will create a narrative we're investigating you," then never bothers to actually do it, or really just shoot down the stupid dossier which is what he should have done all along anyway




So Comey is saying he needed to brief Trump on this because it was about to leak and he should know, and that he might be compromised.

But why conclude that? the dossier is sketchy

------

Comey docs mayb inadmissible:


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	BLUNT: So you didn't consider your memo or your sense of that conversation to be a government document. You considered it to be, somehow, your own personal document that you could share to the media as you wanted through a friend?

	COMEY: Correct. I understood this to be my recollection recorded of my conversation with the president. As a private citizen, I thought it important to get it out.

	BLUNT: Were all your memos that you recorded on classified or other ds memos that might be yours as a private citizen?

	COMEY: I'm not following the question.

	BLUNT: You said you used classified --

	COMEY: Not the classified documents. Unclassified. I don't have any of them anymore. I gave them to the special counsel. My view was that the content of those unclassified, memorialization of those conversations was my recollection recorded. 


	KING: With regard to your memos, isn't it true that in a court case when you're weighing evidence, contemporaneous memos and contemporaneous statements to third parties are considered probative in terms of the validity of testimony?

	COMEY: Yes.

	KING: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 





------


http://www.npr.org/2017/06/07/531643428/comey-opening-statement-for-senate-intelligence-hearing-annotated
	The IC leadership thought it important, for a variety of reasons, to alert the incoming President to the existence of this material, even though it was salacious and unverified. Among those reasons were: (1) we knew the media was about to publicly report the material and we believed the IC should not keep knowledge of the material and its imminent release from the President-Elect; and (2) to the extent there was some effort to compromise an incoming President, we could blunt any such effort with a defensive briefing.

	The Director of National Intelligence asked that I personally do this portion of the briefing because I was staying in my position and because the material implicated the FBI’s counter-intelligence responsibilities. We also agreed I would do it alone to minimize potential embarrassment to the President-Elect. Although we agreed it made sense for me to do the briefing, the FBI’s leadership and I were concerned that the briefing might create a situation where a new President came into office uncertain about whether the FBI was conducting a counter-intelligence investigation of his personal conduct. 


http://time.com/4810345/james-comey-testimony-real-time-transcript/
	James Comey: ...I was speaking to him and briefing him about some salacious and unverified material. It was in a context of that that he had a strong and defensive reaction about that not being true, and my reading of it was, It was important for me to assure him we were not personally investigating him, and so the context then was actually narrower, focused on what I just talked to him about but very important because it was first true and second I was very, very much about being in kind of a -- kind of a J. Edgar Hoover type situation. I didn't want him thinking I was briefing him on this, to sort of hang it over him in some way, I was briefing him on it because we had been told by the media it was about to launch, we don't want to be keeping that from him, and if there was -- he needed to know this was being said. But I was very keen not to leave him with an impression that the bureau was trying to do something to him, and so that's the context in which I said, sir, we're not personally investigating you.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	GRAHAM: Do you agree with me that a fusion was involved in preparing the dossier against Donald Trump? That would be interfering in our election by the Russians?

	COMEY: I don't want to say.




https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	KING: ...I think it was on January 6, when yourself, Admiral Rogers, Director Brennan, and General Clapper went to Trump tower to meet with President Trump. The media reports are that at the end of that meeting, Director Comey, you presented president-elect Trump with a copy of the now infamous or famous dossier. And I don't know how many people were in the room, but within hours, that was leaked to the media and that gave the media the excuse or the rationale to publish almost the entire dossier.

	Do you -- does that violate any law? I mean you were at a classified briefing with the president-elect of the United States and it had to be a very, very small universe of people who knew that you handed them that dossier and it was leaked out within hours. Are you making any effort to find out who leaked it and do you believe that constitute a criminal violation?

	COMEY: I can't say, Mr. King except I can answer in general.




https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/who-is-source-d-the-man-said-to-be-behind-the-trump-russia-dossiers-most-salacious-claim/2017/03/29/379846a8-0f53-11e7-9d5a-a83e627dc120_story.html
	In addition to the salacious allegations that gained widespread attention, the dossier attributed other claims to Millian.

	Over the summer, as Trump prepared to accept the Republican presidential nomination, Millian traveled to Russia. He posted pictures on his Facebook page showing that he attended a ­Russian government-sponsored summit in St. Petersburg in June. One photograph shows him with Russia’s minister for energy. Another shows him chatting with Russian aluminum magnate Oleg Deripaska, who is close to Putin. A spokeswoman for Deripaska declined to comment. A spokesman for the Russian Embassy did not respond to questions about Millian.

	Later in the summer, Millian continued boasting of his Trump connections.

	He told ABC News that he had been the “official broker” for the Trump-branded condo building and described Trump’s affinity for working with Russians. He pointed to “hundreds of millions of dollars that [Trump] received from interactions with Russian businessmen.”

	Millian added that Trump “likes Russia because he likes beautiful Russian ladies — talking to them, of course. And he likes to be able to make lots of money with Russians.”

	Millian told ABC that he was “absolutely not” involved with Russian intelligence. But when asked whether he had heard rumors to that effect, Millian replied, “Yes, of course.”




https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/08/us/politics/senate-hearing-transcript.html
	HARRIS: Has anything you’ve learned in the months since your February 14th meeting changed your understanding of the president’s request? I guess it would be what he has said in public documents or public interviews?

	COMEY: Correct.
