http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/23/politics/fbi-refused-white-house-request-to-knock-down-recent-trump-russia-stories/
	Comey rejected the request for the FBI to comment on the stories, according to sources, because the alleged communications between Trump associates and Russians known to US intelligence are the subject of an ongoing investigation.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/amid-russia-scrutiny-trump-associates-received-informal-ukraine-policy-proposal/2017/02/19/72b0b264-f6eb-11e6-be05-1a3817ac21a5_story.html
	President Trump’s personal lawyer and a former business associate met privately in New York City last month with a member of the Ukrainian parliament to discuss a peace plan for that country that could give Russia long-term control over territory it seized in 2014 and lead to the lifting of sanctions against Moscow.

	The meeting with Andrii V. Artemenko, the Ukrainian politician, involved Michael Cohen, a Trump Organization lawyer since 2007, and Felix Sater, a former business partner who worked on real estate projects with Trump’s company.

	The occurrence of the meeting, first reported Sunday by the New York Times, suggests that some in the region aligned with Russia have been seeking to use Trump business associates as an informal conduit to a new president who has signaled a desire to forge warmer relations with Russia. The discussion took place amid increasingly intense scrutiny of the ties between Trump’s team and Russia, as well as escalating investigations on Capitol Hill of the determination by U.S. intelligence agencies that the Kremlin intervened in last year’s election to help Trump.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/global-opinions/trump-campaign-guts-gops-anti-russia-stance-on-ukraine/2016/07/18/98adb3b0-4cf3-11e6-a7d8-13d06b37f256_story.html
	The Trump campaign worked behind the scenes last week to make sure the new Republican platform won’t call for giving weapons to Ukraine to fight Russian and rebel forces, contradicting the view of almost all Republican foreign policy leaders in Washington.

	Throughout the campaign, Trump has been dismissive of calls for supporting the Ukraine government as it fights an ongoing Russian-led intervention. Trump’s campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, worked as a lobbyist for the Russian-backed former Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych for more than a decade.

	Still, Republican delegates at last week’s national security committee platform meeting in Cleveland were surprised when the Trump campaign orchestrated a set of events to make sure that the GOP would not pledge to give Ukraine the weapons it has been asking for from the United States.

	Inside the meeting, Diana Denman, a platform committee member from Texas who was a Ted Cruz supporter, proposed a platform amendment that would call for maintaining or increasing sanctions against Russia, increasing aid for Ukraine and “providing lethal defensive weapons” to the Ukrainian military.

	“Today, the post-Cold War ideal of a ‘Europe whole and free’ is being severely tested by Russia’s ongoing military aggression in Ukraine,” the amendment read. “The Ukrainian people deserve our admiration and support in their struggle.”

	Trump staffers in the room, who are not delegates but are there to oversee the process, intervened. By working with pro-Trump delegates, they were able to get the issue tabled while they devised a method to roll back the language.

	On the sideline, Denman tried to persuade the Trump staffers not to change the language, but failed. “I was troubled when they put aside my amendment and then watered it down,” Denman told me. “I said, ‘What is your problem with a country that wants to remain free?’ It seems like a simple thing.”

	Finally, Trump staffers wrote an amendment to Denman’s amendment that stripped out the platform’s call for “providing lethal defensive weapons” and replaced it with softer language calling for “appropriate assistance.”

	That amendment was voted on and passed. When the Republican Party releases its platform Monday, the official Republican party position on arms for Ukraine will be at odds with almost all the party’s national security leaders.


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-35990401
	War in eastern Ukraine is now routine for the people still living there, and there is little cause for optimism, despite a ceasefire and a strong desire for peace.

	Outbreaks of fighting between pro-Russian rebels and the Ukrainian army frequently violate the truce and lives are still being lost, two years after the conflict broke out.

	The front line is just 800m from the school at Oleksandrivka, a village controlled by the pro-Russian self-proclaimed "Donetsk People's Republic" (DNR).

	Its soldiers are in trenches close-by, and not visible. On the school's main door is a chilling reminder of daily reality: a piece of white paper that reads: "Weapons banned inside."

	Head teacher Valentina Cherkas's booming voice offers a reassuring welcome to the children as they arrive.

	Outside, by the playground, are blue flak-jacketed ceasefire monitors from the Organization for Co-operation and Security in Europe (OSCE).

	"Madness" is the one word Valentina uses to sum up the war. 

	...

	Among the city's disproportionate number of pensioners, stories of destroyed houses and divided families are common.

	A stoical, cash-strapped woman of 62 blames Ukraine for the fighting and says her heart has "always been leaning towards Russia".

	But Yilena, 25, is visiting her family in Donetsk and is representative of a huge number of largely younger people who have left this territory.

	"There is no future here and no prospects," she says.

	In her opinion, people left here have become hostages to the conflict.

	...

	Talks in Paris between Ukraine and Russia seemed to stall and there have been an increasing number of ceasefire violations.

	Minor agreements are overshadowed by the bigger, intractable issues of elections; the future status of the rebel-held land; control of Ukraine's border with Russia.

	Western analysts and Ukraine accuse Russia of wanting to keep the war going, in order to undermine Ukraine's stability and drain the country of vast financial resources, while the economy is in dire straights.

	The pro-Russian authorities in Donetsk blame Ukraine for the continuing fighting.

	What is certain is that Ukraine's chances of becoming a prosperous nation, allied to the West, will become undermined if the conflict drags on.


http://www.businessinsider.com/sean-spicer-on-russia-investigate-2017-2
	In response to a question at Monday's press briefing about whether a special prosecutor should investigate communications between Trump's associates and Russians, Spicer asked, "A special prosecutor for what?"

	"We have now for six months heard story after story about unnamed sources saying the same thing over and over again," Spicer said. "And nothing's come of it." 

	..."I think Russia's involvement and activity has been investigated up and down," Spicer said. "So the question becomes at some point, if there is nothing to further to investigate, what are you asking people to investigate?"

	He continued later: "How many people have to say there's nothing there before you realize there's nothing there?" 

https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/house-intelligence-chairman-denies-evidence-of-trump-teams-ties-to-russia/2017/02/27/66495ce8-fcfd-11e6-99b4-9e613afeb09f_story.html
	“As of right now, I don’t have any evidence of any phone calls. It doesn’t mean they don’t exist … What I’ve been told by many folks is that there’s nothing there,” Nunes said.

	The chairman said that there is no need at this time for a special prosecutor to investigate allegations of contact between Russian officials and President Trump’s campaign aides. Instead, the Republican said that the real problem was frequent leaks to the news media on the subject of Russia

--------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/obama-orders-review-of-russian-hacking-during-presidential-campaign/2016/12/09/31d6b300-be2a-11e6-94ac-3d324840106c_story.html
	On Oct. 7, the intelligence community officially accused Moscow of seeking to interfere in the election through the hacking of “political organizations.” Though the statement never specified which party, it was clear that officials were referring to cyber-intrusions into the computers of the DNC and other Democratic groups and individuals.

	Some key Republican lawmakers have continued to question the quality of evidence supporting Russian involvement.

	“I’ll be the first one to come out and point at Russia if there’s clear evidence, but there is no clear evidence — even now,” said Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee and a member of the Trump transition team. “There’s a lot of innuendo, lots of circumstantial evidence, that’s it.”


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/01/world/europe/netherlands-hacking-concerns-hand-count-ballots.html
    Concerned about the role hackers and false news might have played in the United States election, the Dutch government announced on Wednesday that all ballots in next month’s elections would be counted by hand.
 
    The decision to forgo electronic counting is a stark response to warnings that outside actors, including Russia, might try to tamper with pivotal elections this year in the Netherlands, France and Germany — three major democracies in which establishment parties are facing pressure from right-wing populism of the kind that fueled Britain’s vote to leave the European Union and Donald J. Trump’s triumph in the United States election.


http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2017/01/09/russia-engineered-election-hacks-europe/96216556/
    Russian intelligence hackers, masquerading as third parties, have conducted attacks abroad that targeted critical infrastructure networks. “Russia also has used cyber tactics and techniques to seek to influence public opinion across Europe and Eurasia,” Clapper said.
 
    A declassified intelligence report on the Russian hacking released Friday accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of ordering the effort to help elect Trump. It warned that Russia would use lessons learned from the effort to disrupt elections of U.S. allies.

 
http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/2017/02/03/norway-russian-hackers-hit-spy-agency-defense-labour-party/97441782/
    Norway’s security service says nine email accounts — including those belonging to the Labour party, the foreign ministry and defense ministry — have been targeted by hackers believed to be the same Russia-linked group blamed for breaking into Democratic National Committee computers.

 
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/jan/31/czech-cyber-attack-russia-suspected-of-hacking-diplomats-emails
    The Czech Republic has suffered a damaging security breach after hackers infiltrated the emails of dozens of its most senior diplomats in a massive cyber-attack thought to have been carried out by Russia.
 
    Lubomír Zaorálek, the country’s foreign minister, admitted that his own email account had been breached in a “sophisticated” operation he compared to the onslaught against the Democratic party in the recent US presidential election.

 
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/jan/11/russia-waging-information-war-in-sweden-study-finds
    Sweden’s most authoritative foreign policy institute has accused Russia of using fake news, false documents and disinformation as part of a coordinated campaign to influence public opinion and decision-making in the Scandinavian country.
 
    The Swedish Institute of International Affairs said in a comprehensive study that Sweden had been the target of “a wide array of active measures” aimed at “hampering its ability to generate public support in pursuing its policies”

 
http://www.smh.com.au/world/germany-probes-russian-fake-news-campaigns-in-leadup-to-elections-20170109-gtolqr.html
    German government officials said they were carefully examining an unprecedented proliferation of fake news items amid intelligence agency reports of Russian efforts to influence the country's parliamentary election in September.
 
    The BfV domestic intelligence agency also confirmed on Monday that a December cyber attack against the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) used the same tools seen in a 2015 hack of the German parliament that was attributed to the APT28 Russian hacking group.

  
http://foreignpolicy.com/2017/02/01/wikileaks-turns-its-attention-to-the-french-elections/
    WikiLeaks has served notice that it will enter the fray of the French presidential election.
 
    On Tuesday, its Twitter account promoted 3,630 documents from its archives on center-right presidential candidate François Fillon.
 
    None were of the salacious variety, yet the move has stoked fears among European security officials that WikiLeaks will repeat its U.S. electoral influence performance in France — and perhaps elsewhere in Europe. Some even worry that the propaganda apparatus will partner again with Russian operatives with the aim of tilting the outcome of elections in favor of Kremlin-friendly candidates.

 
http://www.politico.eu/article/cybersecurity-hackers-france-at-risk-of-being-next-election-hacking-victim/
    In addition, more than 1 million people in France still vote via electronic machines — which Pietrasanta said could also be vulnerable to hacking.
 
    “The question of cyberattacks is a real worry that is growing stronger at all levels [of government], both on the intensity of the threat and the sophistication of recent attacks,” said Pietrasanta. “The state has deployed financial means, but there is still lots of concern given what happened in the United States with the hacking of the Democratic Party.”

 
http://www.defenseone.com/technology/2017/01/putins-dnc-hackers-actively-targeting-french-elections/134603/
    The same Putin-state backed actors that stole emails from the DNC and John Podesta are targeting campaigns in France in the run up to critical elections in that country. The spear phish campaigns are identical to the attacks that the “Fancy Bear” group launched against the DNC and John Podesta.
 
    As the American press, intelligence community and Donald Trump play out a sordid spy drama, Vladimir Putin’s kompromat campaign of attempted data theft and election meddling continues across Europe, according to a cybersecurity professional with direct knowledge of the ongoing attempts.
 
    France’s Minister of Defense Jean-Yves Le Drian told French newspapers on Jan. 8 that he expected Russian actors to target France. “Of course, one cannot be naive,” he said.
 
    The objective in France is to advance Marine Le Pen’s National Front Party. Le Pen has advocated a weakening the EU and has supported Vladimir Putin on the issue of the illegal annexation of Crimea.
 
    France’s election will take place on April 23.
 
    The cybersecurity source declined to name specific parties that had been targeted, but the races themselves provide good indication of the Kremlin picks. The attack follows similar news from Germany. In December, Thomas Haldenwang, deputy president of the domestic security agency, or BfV, said Germany was also seeing increased spear phish attacks. Those attacks are also continuing, the source said.
 
    In Sweden, Major General Gunnar Karlson, the head of the Swedish Military Intelligence and Security Service, has also described increased an ongoing Russian spear phish campaigns against political targets in that country.
 
    Putin’s primary target in Germany is widely understood to be Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union. Germany’s will take place in September.

 
https://euobserver.com/foreign/136474
    He said that if mainstream EU parties regained the trust of voters then Russia’s actions would be less effective.
 
    “The reason they have any real impact at all is the legitimacy deficit felt in the West. Address that, and there is little Moscow can do,” he said.
