Here's a recap of what I've sent out so far:

https://pastebin.com/NkuFjCBh - scope and nature of Russian intelligence activities
https://pastebin.com/5btVHM2F - Erik Prince, Putin, and the CIA
https://pastebin.com/zjHbRS7C - come to Jesus
https://pastebin.com/MSX9TUEk - The KGB and manipulating American politics
https://medium.com/@bb06/ideological-subversion-and-racism-f3d09421cf78
https://medium.com/@bb06/update-on-spies-b82f4c9b6d47
https://medium.com/@bb06/errata-and-addenda-d3d7facc50b3
https://medium.com/@bb06/putins-net-d1dafba0a40b
https://pastebin.com/U2EDK3Ge - Trump, his advisors, and national security 
https://pastebin.com/hLQ7TZRG - turning a stronger force against itself
https://medium.com/@j_doe/https-archive-org-details-nonedarecallittreasonjohnstormer-26a2bd966ecf
https://pastebin.com/e4qCs1AT - The Okhrana influence operations in WW1, WW2, and today, Great Chinese Famine, historical revisionism
https://pastebin.com/4x9uvu8Q - notes on Okhrana activities


The Okhrana attacks countries with influencing operations, placing or recruiting agents in their government and media and using their politics against them. You can see how this worked in China: their agents toured universities and passed out literature to "teach" the agricultural pseudoscience of Lysenkoism to Chinese scientists and farmers, silencing dissenters along the way, eventually convincing the CCP that science and politics are inseparable, and Lysenkoism would help them grow "super crops." Agents like Lin Biao promoted Mao, knowing he was pliable and overconfident, and eventually helped install him as dictator. While they they were convincing the Chinese that Mao's policies were infallible, they were using him to implement policies that killed tens of millions of their people.

The way they attack countries is summed up pretty well by the KGB defector Bezmenov: "Turning a stronger force against itself." "The KGB is not after secrets. It is after public opinion," and about "85%" of their resources go into "ideological subversion," which means influencing the ideas and policies of a country so that its people destroy themselves. (see https://archive.org/stream/BezmenovLoveLetterToAmerica/YuriBezmenov-LoveLetterToAmerica_djvu.txt, https://archive.org/stream/YuriBezmenovBlackIsBeautifulCommunismIsNot/YuriBezmenovBlackIsBeautiful_djvu.txt, and http://uselessdissident.blogspot.com/2008/11/interview-with-yuri-bezmenov-part-three.html)

Their spreading the ideology of Lysenkoism is one example of ideological subversion: they convinced enough Chinese (particularly Mao) that classical genetics is a "bourgeois" concept, and that Lysenkoism was the real "truth" since it was grounded in Marxist principles. People believed it, and the result was millions of deaths by starvation. The anti-vaccine movement today is another example, and, in a disaster situation, could cause millions more deaths. You can see them trying to make people afraid of vaccines in their propaganda today:

http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html

https://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Ainfowars.com+vaccines

https://www.infowars.com/bill-gates-continues-gods-work-third-world-vaccine-workers-shot-dead/

You need to understand that the Okhrana (which might be a good name for them, since they're more international, often fall very short of furthering Russian "interests," and that's what they were called originally) don't care that what they do kills millions of innocent people. They don't mind if their operations, like some of their propaganda about vaccines, specifically targets children to get them sick. They deliberately try to recruit people who "lack moral principles":


http://uselessdissident.blogspot.com/2008/11/interview-with-yuri-bezmenov-part-three.html
	This was my instruction: try to get into large-circulation, established conservative media; reach filthy-rich movie makers; intellectuals, so-called ‘academic’ circles; cynical, egocentric people who can look into your eyes with angelic expression and tell you a lie. These are the most recruitable people: people who lack moral principles, who are either too greedy or too much suffer from self importance. They feel that they matter a lot. These are the people whom the KGB wanted very much to recruit.


The very same kind of people who "can look into your eyes with angelic expression and tell you a lie" and who "lack moral principles" tend to be the kind of people who are good at manipulating others (see http://www.healthguidance.org/entry/15850/1/Characteristics-of-a-Sociopath.html), which might explain why the Okhrana relies so much on using influence operations to get what they want--they're naturally good at it.

Most of the media and so called "experts" like Clint Watts will tell you that their influence operations are little more than online trolls and some conspiratorial fake news websites. That is not how their influence operations work. This is how their influence operations work:


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP86T00586R000400490007-7.pdf
	The Soviets in India: Moscow's Major Penetration Program

	...the Soviets ... continue to manipulate and exploit selected issues and politicians. More important, through a wide range of overt and covert activities conducted during the last three decades, the Soviets have built up substantial influence capabilities in India.

	...we believe Moscow has undertaken activities to penetrate virtually every sector of Indian society:

		- Moscow provides substantial financial support to the ruling Congress-I Party, the two Indian Communist parties, and individual politicians of various parties ...This funding has helped ensure significant Soviet access to Indian Government and political leaders.

		- The Soviets enjoy nearly unfettered access to the pages of Indian newspapers, largely through the efforts of the Soviet Information Department. ...Moscow overtly and covertly placed more than 160,000 items (original articles plus replays) in the Indian press, widely regarded as the freest in the Third World. Access to Press Trust of India, the largest English language news service, has become so automatic that some Soviet officials have come to call it "Press TASS of India."

		...

		- In addition to placements in Indian newspapers, the Soviet Information Department in New Delhi covertly finances the publishing of books in India and distributes some 25 million magazines, books, and pamphlets a year.

		- The Soviets orchestrate the political activities of at least a dozen front groups in India--including the Indo-Soviet Cultural Society, the local affiliate of the World Peace Council, and a professional journalists' organization.

	These Soviet activities constitute a massive assault on the Indian political process and, in our view, have yielded several benefits to Moscow:

		- Ready access to many Indian Government and political leaders has helped Moscow influence some of these leaders to criticize US foreign policy and undertake actions supportive of Soviet foreign policy. [author's aside: see http://www.foxbusiness.com/politics/2017/02/14/kucinich-pins-flynn-leak-on-intel-community-warns-another-cold-war.html, http://thehill.com/blogs/floor-action/senate/324182-mccain-rand-paul-working-for-vladimir-putin, and https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/global-opinions/trump-campaign-guts-gops-anti-russia-stance-on-ukraine/2016/07/18/98adb3b0-4cf3-11e6-a7d8-13d06b37f256_story.html]

		- The substantial Soviet propaganda effort in India, which has capitalized on significant Indian gains from close Indo-Soviet ties and Indian fears about US foreign policy, has helped to persuade educated Indians---including the political elite--of Moscow's attractiveness as an international partner. In a turnabout from favorable attitudes toward the United States just after Indian independence, the urban, educated public has rated the Soviet Union more favorably than the United States in the large majority of opinion polls during the last 11 years. [see http://www.cbsnews.com/news/poll-americans-view-putin-more-favorably-with-his-image-rising-sharply-among-gop/]

		...

		- The substantial apparatus that they have built up in India provides the Soviets with a credible nonaligned base for their influence activities throughout the Third World [see http://thehill.com/homenews/media/327559-former-breitbart-reporter-joins-russian-propaganda-network-im-on-the-russian, http://www.breitbart.com/news/putin-sits-down-at-piano-in-china-plays-soviet-songs/, and http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/315990-breitbarts-influence-grows-inside-white-house]

	...Rajiv Gandhi ... is unlikely to expend the necessary political capital to curtail Soviet activities substantially. Thus, we expect Soviet efforts to continue for the foreseeable future, and, in the event of a serious crisis or political instability, we have little doubt that the Soviets would make a full court press to draw India even closer to Moscow.

	...Moscow has not been content to rely solely on government ties to ensure a continuing close relationship with New Delhi. In fact, the Soviet Union has capitalized on these ties, and on Indo-US discord, to undertake a variety of overt and cover activities to try to increase its political leverage within India. These activities are extensive and include: exploitation of a broad network of contacts among Indian politicians, government officials, and the military; 

	...Given what we know of Soviet intelligence presence elsewhere, we believe that the intelligence presence is substantially larger than these figures suggest.

	...Soviet diplomats have extensive contacts with both cabinet-level officials and the middle and upper levels of the various ministries of the central government in New Delhi.

	...Some key officials, including cabinet ministers, ambassadors, and prominent Congress-I politicians, have been active in promoting Soviet activities

	...the Soviets are deeply involved in the Indian political process through covert contributions to the treasuries of political parties as well as to individual politicians. ...Soviets provide funding to Congress-I Party coffers through kickback arrangements with Indian businesses.

	...In addition to party funding, the Soviets channel money to individual Congress-I and opposition politicians through kickback arrangements and cash payments. ...the Soviet Embassy maintains a large reserve of rupees for various uses--including clandestine payments to Congress-I politicians. Soviet officials also pass cash payments to Indian Communist Party politicians, as well as smaller amounts to a few politicians in several non-Communist opposition parties.

	...Although the Soviets search broadly for potentially vulnerable and cooperative politicians, they appear to target those more likely to have major political influence--such as sitting members of Parliament and MP candidates. ...as many as 40 percent of the Congress-I MPs in Mrs. Gandhi's last government had received Soviet political contributions.


While India's politicians were taking bribes and their citizens reading propaganda, this is what they were letting happen to their country:


https://archive.org/details/BezmenovLoveLetterToAmerica
	Upon graduating, I was sent to India as a translator for the Soviet Economic Aid Group which was building oil refineries in two Indian states. Here, during my first foreign assignment, I realized the great discrepancy between my country's proclaimed goals of "selfless fraternal cooperation" and the actual ruthless exploitation of India by Soviet neo-colonialists. As an example of this exploitation, the Soviets, in purchasing Indian manufactured goods, would pay the Indians only in rubles. 

	Unfortunately, rubles are non-convertible currency on the international market, meaning that the Indian manufacturer would be unable to purchase anything on the international market with his Soviet rubles. On the other hand, the Soviets would take the Indian manufactured goods and sell them at a substantial profit on the international market for "hard currency" such as dollars or pounds which are easily negotiable. So basically, the Indian manufacturer received only a fraction of the actual worth of his product, while the Soviets reaped the rewards of their duplicity. 

	...So despite my early dislike of the Soviet Communist system, I joined the KGB, hoping in some way to 'outsmart them', to play the game until I could see more clearly how to proceed. My rapid promo- tion followed. I was once again assigned to India, this time as a USSR press-officer and a 'P. R.' agent for the KGB. Because of my knowledge of India and her languages — Hindi and Urdu, I became deeply involved in the KGB operations in India. I was directed by my superiors to slowly but surely establish the Soviet 'sphere of influence' in India.  

	In addition to the bribery and corruption of Indian officials, blackmail and intrusion into the internal affairs of India, the Soviets went one step further in their 'brotherly assistance' to India. In 1969 by a secret directive of the Central Committee of the CPSU (Communist Party of the Soviet Union), all embassies of the USSR all over the world, including India, opened a new secret department innocently titled "Research and Counter-Propaganda Group". I became a deputy chief of that department, working under a KGB officer, comrade. Valeri Neyev.  

	It did not take me long to discover that our group was engaged in, neither "research" nor "counter-propaganda": behind locked doors we accumulated intelligence from various sources, including Indian informers and agents, regarding virtually EVERY important and politically significant citizen of India — members of Parliament, civil servicemen, military and public figures, media people, businessmen, university professors, radical or otherwise students and writers — in other words EVERYONE instrumental in shaping the PUBLIC OPINION and policies of the nation. Those who were "friendly "and ready to invite the Soviet expansionist policy into their own country were promoted to higher positions of power, affluence and prestige through various operations by KGB-Novosti. Large groups, of the so-called "progressive and sober-thinking" Indians were on a regular basis, generously supplied with duty-free booze from the embassy stocks. Soviet sympathizers were invited to the USSR for free trips and numerous "international conferences" where they not only received substantial sums of money in the form of "literary awards" or "Nehru Peace and Friendship" prizes, but were also medically treated for VD or hernias acquired in the perpetual "class struggle" against "American imperialism". Those who refused to be "flexible" and take a voluntary role in this cruel farce were thoroughly character-assassinated in the sensation-hungry media and press.  

	Let me give you an example of how the KGB uses the information it collects. One day in 1968, I was routinely scanning through the backlog of USA Information Service releases and classified documentation, generously supplied to us by our Indian and American "friends". In one of the dispatches I read that the South Vietnamese city of Hue had been captured by the Hanoi Communists. When it was re-captured by the US Army and allied forces, only two days later, the CIA discovered to their horror that several thousand Vietnamese — teachers, priests, Buddhists, businessmen, and educated citizens — everyone who was "pro-American", had been rounded up by the invaders and IN ONE NIGHT, taken out of the city limits and executed collectively. Some were shot. Others, with their hands tied by electric wire, were found with their skulls crushed-in by shovels and iron bars. "How could they possibly have located all of these people within only a few hours in a large city?" — the Americans wondered. I thought I knew the answer.  

	Long before the invasion there was an extensive network of Communist informers working under the guidance of the Soviet embassy in Hanoi — that is under the KGB. The Communists filed every bit of information: addresses, personal habits, political affiliations, expressed ideas, unexpressed thoughts revealed in informal and private conversations, even the names and addresses of relatives, friends, even lovers and mistresses of the future victims of "liberation". After reading the news release I was sick, physically, with the realization that the department I was working for in New Delhi was engaged in exactly the same activity that had been used in the city of Hue. I realized fully that I was a part of a heinous crime against our host country. Adding to my nausea, I discovered that some of our files contained data of a personal nature; intimate information such as "sexual preferences" e.g. homosexualism, of certain Indian VIPs — even radicals and Communists openly sympathetic to Soviet policies. Were they also listed for execution if a Soviet-backed revolution in India should occur?  

	...Western analysts have already pointed out the diverse tactics of "Active Measures." Some of these were exactly the ones I was trained to use while working with foreign delegations in Moscow and the USSR embassy in New Delhi: overt and covert propaganda; use of "Agents of Influence," faked 'International Forums' created by KGB/ Novosti to bring the atmosphere of legitimacy and respectability to Soviet operations; provoking and manipulating mass demonstrations and assemblies; spreading rumours and 'reliable information from circles close to Politbureau'; forgeries of USA Information Service press-releases; planting phony stories in local media; creating hundreds of tabloid newspapers subsidized by the USSR embassy through front organizations and fake 'advertising' companies for the purpose of 'legally' financing groups of subversives and radicals, etc. Other tactics, such as sabotage, character assassination of 'stubborn' Indians resisting Soviet subversion, terrorism and even occasional killings of 'reactionaries and counter-revolutionaries' for the psychological effect of 'paralyzing with fear' — these also were used by my KGB colleagues from other departments of the USSR embassy. 


http://uselessdissident.blogspot.com/2008/11/interview-with-yuri-bezmenov-part-three.html
	Another area of activity when I was working for the Novosti Press Agency was to accompany groups of so-called ‘progressive intellectuals’: writers, journalists, publishers, teachers, and professors of colleges.

	You can see here in the Kremlin, I am the second on the left, with a group of Pakistani and Indian intellectuals. Most of them pretended that they don’t understand that we are actually working on behalf of the Soviet government and the KGB. They pretended that they are actually being guests—VIP intellectuals—that they are treated according to their merits and their intellectual abilities. For us they were just a bunch of political prostitutes to be taken advantage of for various propaganda operations.

	...So most of the Indians who were cooperating with the Soviets, especially with our Department of Information of the USSR embassy, were listed for execution. And when I discovered that fact, of course I was sick: I was mentally and physically sick. I thought that I was going to explode one day during the briefing of the Ambassador’s office; I would stand up and say something like, ‘We are basically a bunch of murderers. That’s what we are. It has nothing to do with ‘friendship and understanding between the nations’ and blah-blah-blah. We are murderers! We behave as a bunch of thugs in a country which is hospitable to us, a country with ancient traditions.’

	But I did not defect. I tried to get the message across, but to my horror, nobody wanted even to listen, least of all to believe what I had to say. And I tried all kinds of tricks. I would leak information through letters or lost documents or something like that, and still I got no message. The message was not published even in the conservative mass media of India.

	The immediate impulse to defect was the Bangladesh crisis [author's note: see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bangladesh_Liberation_War#Atrocities], which was described by American correspondents as an ‘Islamic grassroots revolution,’ which is absolute baloney. There was nothing to do with Islam, and there was no grassroots revolution. Actually there are no grassroots revolutions, period. Any revolution is a byproduct of a highly-organized group of conscientious and professional organizers, but has nothing to do with grassroots.

	...when I saw that India—Indian territory—was being used as a jumping board to destroy East Pakistan… I saw myself thousands of so-called ‘students’ traveling through India to East Pakistan through the territory of India, and the Indian government pretended not to see what was going on. They knew perfectly well, the Indian police knew it, the intelligence department of the Indian government knew it, the KGB of course knew it, and the CIA knew it.


http://articles.chicagotribune.com/1986-11-17/news/8603260525_1_rajiv-gandhi-congress-party-india
	Rajiv Gandhi Struggles To Modernize His India
	November 17, 1986

	Gandhi has had much more trouble dealing with the vested interests in his own Congress Party. This is a motley crew of yes men and hangers-on who rode to power on the coattails of his mother, Indira Gandhi, and are responsible for much of the corruption and ineptitude in the party.

	Gandhi`s frequent cabinet changes reflect his frustration with the lack of talented people in the party. ``I have found that very few people have original ideas,`` he told me. ``Most of them are influenced either by the West or the Soviet Union.``

	...For his part, Gandhi says he is disappointed at the lack of substance in public debate in his country. He would like to refocus it to address the vital issues. To this end, he meets regularly with scholars, journalists and other opinion leaders.

	``The challenge,`` he says, ``is to come up with Indian ideas, rooted in Indian values.``


https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/indias-costly-culture-of-corruption/2011/03/28/AFXoUMPC_story.html
	India’s costly culture of corruption
	April 3, 2011

	“The sheer size and audacity of this corruption has shocked the nation,” said G.V.L. Narsimha Rao, a political pollster.

	Well, maybe not shocked, exactly.

	After all, this is a country where people of a certain age still remember when you had to bribe somebody to get a train ticket, a phone line or government approval for a new piece of business equipment. The “License Raj,” and the petty bribery that it gave rise to, were said to have ended in 1991 with the market liberalization and deregulation pushed through by then-Finance Minister Manmohan Singh.

	Twenty years later, Singh is prime minister, but it is still not uncommon to hear of people greasing palms to get a college scholarship, tax refund or mortgage from a state-owned bank. By various estimates, 15 to 50 percent of government subsidies for the poor are siphoned off because of fraud. Among the upper middle class, it is common to have two phone lines at home, in case one of the lines is cut by workers in the state phone monopoly looking to extract a bribe for reconnecting it. 

	...Among many in the business and governmental elite, there is a belief that India is approaching something of an inflection point, an awareness that its impressive growth cannot continue much longer unless it reforms its governance, its business culture and its institutional arrangements.

	“We can’t take 20 years to deal with our inability to shed our feudal past and embrace political and economic relationships that are governed by the rule of law,” says Sanjeev Sanyal, a former bank economist who now writes about the environment and urban development. “This is the crisis of India.” 


Besides "penetrating virtually every sector of society," part of how the Okhrana influences countries is by bribing, blackmailing, character assassinating, or actually assassinating their politicians. They "search broadly for potentially vulnerable and cooperative politicians," and promote politicians who they believe will cooperate:


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP86T00586R000400490007-7.pdf
	There is also evidence that the Soviets focus on politicians whom they expect to be rising starts in Indian politics. [Redacted], a former Congress-I politician--who was highly ambitious and capable and who had been a possible challenger to Mrs. Gandhi--is popularly believed to have received Soviet funds and, at least for a time, took positions very favorable to Soviet interests.


In India, they were very successful--40% of Congress-I members of parliament were taking their bribes. As a result of their efforts, the politicians in these countries allowed, and even helped, the Okhrana to exploit their people and destroy their society, even while they "knew perfectly well" what was going on, as Bezmenov says. And one might be inclined to believe him--the CIA report "The Soviets in India" was written in 1985, and Bezmenov's book was published a year earlier. For whatever reason, it looks like the Indian press didn't pick it up.

The same pattern of treason in India happened in China. While China's citizens were starving, Tan Zhenlin gave Mao a rosy report on the communes and told China's peasants to "eat their fill." He knew China was starving. While Mao's policies were killing millions of Chinese, most who did not understand why the famine was happening, Lin Biao took great pains to convince the Chinese people that Mao's "thought" is "supreme" and "always correct," and that "when in the past our work was done well, it was precisely when we thoroughly implemented and did not interfere with Chairman Mao’s thought." Lin Biao knew the Chinese were starving and he knew he was lying--he later tried to assassinate Mao and flee to the Soviet Union.

We must learn from history. There will always be some people, including politicians, that are willing--even eager--to betray their country. Some people simply don't have a conscience, and it is believed that the percentage of politicians with this attribute is higher than that of the general public (see http://www.huffingtonpost.com/david-freeman/are-politicians-psychopaths_b_1818648.html). If the CIA's report on India's politics is to be believed, that number might be around 40%.

In United States politics, the culture in Washington is already conducive to bribery and treason:


http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/277462-60-minutes-fundraising-demands-turning-lawmakers-into
	When Florida Republican David Jolly came to Washington after winning a special election in 2014, he was surprised by what he was told was his No. 1 priority: fundraising.

	The House member told “60 Minutes” he sat behind closed doors with party leadership, where he was told he had six months to raise $2 million.

	“Your job, new member of Congress, is to raise $18,000 a day. Your first responsibility is to make sure you hit $18,000 a day,” he said he was told.

	...Jolly is running for the Florida Senate seat that will be vacated by Marco Rubio and has been told he’ll need to spend $100 million to win. It will be a heavy life, as he’s promised not to make fundraising phone calls. 

	He’s also introduced the “STOP” Act, which would ban federal elected officials from directly soliciting donations — though they could still attend fundraisers and have campaign operations work on their behalf.

	Democratic Rep. Rick Nolan is co-sponsoring the bill and says things have changed since he first served in Congress in the 1970s.

	Since the Supreme Court decision in Citizens United v. FEC, he said, both parties have told new members they should spend 30 hours a week on calls — and the prospect is keeping people from running for office.

	“I could give you names of people who've said, ‘You know, I'd like to go to Washington and help fix problems, but I don't want to go to Washington and become a midlevel telemarketer, dialing for dollars, for cryin' out loud,” Nolan said.

	But the prospects of passage for the bill are low — it only has six co-sponsors and some opponents say it’s a cosmetic fix that has no chance of becoming law. 


https://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2015/01/21/5-years-later-citizens-united-has-remade-us-politics


https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2015-09-28/bloomberg-poll-americans-want-supreme-court-to-turn-off-political-spending-spigot
	Americans may be sharply divided on other issues, but they are united in their view of the 2010 Supreme Court ruling that unleashed a torrent of political spending: They hate it.

	In a new Bloomberg Politics national poll, 78 percent of those responding said the Citizens United ruling should be overturned, compared with 17 percent who called it a good decision.


http://www.npr.org/templates/transcript/transcript.php?storyId=365484670
	But, of course, the court, over the last ensuing years, has changed on this subject and has become, in Citizens United and then just this - another ruling just this past year - has greatly loosened the restrictions that this can be chalked up to the changing composition of the court of course. The court has - under John Roberts, has become much friendlier to big money in politics. And that's been a real vindication for McConnell. It's been just a triumph for him that the court has taken up his view of the matter. In a very specific way actually, they've taken up his view of the matter, which is - the key thing in these rulings, these recent rulings, is that they've defined corruption in politics very narrowly. They've defined corruption as an actual case of someone giving money to a politician who does X or Y in response to having gotten that money - basically a bribe.

	What they haven't moved away from is the sort of broader definition of corruption of politics, which is just the notion that having all this money flowing into our elections, especially from dark sources, sources that are not disclosed, is simply not healthy for our politics and is corrupting the whole general process. That's what John McCain was arguing back in his push for campaign finance reform. And that's what Mitch McConnell was arguing against, that sort of broader definition. And now the court has taken up his whole view of how we should view corruption in politics.


https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2015-09-28/bloomberg-poll-americans-want-supreme-court-to-turn-off-political-spending-spigot
	Unhappiness with the 2010 decision cuts across demographic and partisan and ideological lines. Although the ruling was fashioned by the court’s conservative majority, Republicans oppose Citizens United 80 percent to 18 percent, according to the poll. Democrats oppose 83 percent to 13 percent, and independents, 71 percent to 22 percent. Among self-described liberals, conservatives, and moderates, 80 percent say the decision should be overturned.


http://talkingpointsmemo.com/dc/senate-republicans-filibuster-constitutional-amendment-citizens-united
	Senate Republicans on Thursday blocked a vote on a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United and other Supreme Court rulings dating back to 1976 that invalidated restrictions on money in politics.

	The party line vote was 54 in favor, 42 against, falling short of the 60 votes needed to defeat a filibuster and proceed to a final vote.

	The Senate broke an initial filibuster on the measure on Monday. But many Republicans who voted to begin debate did not support the proposal and intended to ultimately block it. The procedural motion on Thursday means the Senate won’t move to an up-or-down vote, where it was even likelier to fail because it needed a two-thirds majority to advance.

	Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), a fierce opponent of campaign finance restrictions, blasted Democrats for bringing up the measure.

	“I have to say it’s a little disconcerting to see the Democrat-led Senate focusing on things like reducing free speech protections for the American people,” he said before the vote. “This is what they chose to make their top legislative priority this week. Taking an eraser to the First Amendment.”


http://www.federalistblog.us/2008/10/freedom_of_speech_and_of_the_press/


http://www.iep.utm.edu/amer-enl/


https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Federalist_%28Dawson%29/10
	Federalist No. 10
	By James Madison

	...No man is allowed to be a judge in his own cause; because his interest would certainly bias his judgment, and, not improbably, corrupt his integrity. With equal, nay with greater reason, a body of men are unfit to be both judges and parties at the same time; yet what are many of the most important acts of legislation, but so many judicial determinations, not indeed concerning the rights of single persons, but concerning the rights of large bodies of citizens? and what are the different classes of Legislators, but advocates and parties to the causes which they determine? Is a law proposed concerning private debts? It is a question to which the creditors are parties on one side and the debtors on the other. Justice ought to hold the balance between them. Yet the parties are, and must be, themselves the judges; and the most numerous party, or, in other words, the most powerful faction, must be expected to prevail. Shall domestic manufactures be encouraged, and in what degree, by restrictions on foreign manufactures? are questions which would be differently decided by the landed and the manufacturing classes; and probably by neither, with a sole regard to justice and the public good. The apportionment of taxes on the various descriptions of property is an act which seems to require the most exact impartiality; yet there is, perhaps, no legislative act in which greater opportunity and temptation are given to a predominant party, to trample on the rules of justice. Every shilling, with which they overburden the inferior number, is a shilling saved to their own pockets.

	It is in vain to say, that enlightened statesmen will be able to adjust these clashing interests, and render them all subservient to the public good. Enlightened statesmen will not always be at the helm.


https://www.bettermarkets.com/newsroom/new-poll-4th-anniversary-dodd-frank-shows-ongoing-distrust-wall-street-strong-support
	Washington, D.C. – July 17, 2014 - On the 4th anniversary of the passage of the Dodd-Frank law and nearly 6 years since the financial collapse of 2008, American voters still distrust Wall Street and big banks and strongly support tough financial regulation of them, according to a new national survey of likely 2014 voters (attached).  The result is a strong majority of voters supporting stricter regulations of the way banks and other financial institutions conduct their business. 

	The national poll, conducted by Greenberg, Quinlan Rosner Research on behalf of Better Markets, surveyed more than 1,000 likely voters from across the political spectrum. It found majorities of Democrats and Independents and a plurality of Republicans still consider Wall Street and the big banks “bad actors” that don’t care about the interests of American families. 


https://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/economic-intelligence/2013/09/16/poll-shows-americans-want-more-wall-street-regulation-five-years-after-the-financial-crisis
	Regulating financial services and products is seen as either "important" or "very important" by more than 90 percent of voters, the survey found. It's an overwhelming sentiment, and one that cuts across party lines: 96 percent of Democrats regard financial regulation as important, but so do 95 percent of independents and 89 percent of Republicans.


http://www.cnn.com/2014/12/16/politics/kevin-yoder-citigroup-elizabeth-warren-wall-street/
	The mystery congressman responsible for the inclusion of language in the $1.1 trillion dollar spending bill that caused a progressive outcry is coming forward to defend the provision. The measure weakens banking regulations designed to prevent another financial crisis. 

	...That legislation, HR 992, was partially written by lobbyists for Citigroup, according to emails obtained by The New York Times. The bill, which was never voted on in the Senate, sought to loosen Dodd-Frank Act regulations aimed at limiting banking and investment industry practices that led to the 2008 financial crisis.


https://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/12/15/in-push-out-provision-example-of-how-congress-does-its-job/
	In June, as the House appropriations committee was drafting the annual bill to fund the Treasury Department, the judiciary and a vast mishmash of other agencies, a Kansas Republican known best for skinny-dipping in the Sea of Galilee proposed to dismantle a signature overhaul passed after the financial crisis.

	It was adopted after a few minutes of low-key debate, without a recorded vote, really without much notice — until last week. That was when the provision burst into the open and divided Democrats sharply, and it is about to become law as part of a $1.1 trillion spending measure.

	How Representative Kevin Yoder’s “push out” provision survived is not, as many have suggested, a tale of dark favors done in back rooms at the last minute. Instead, it is how powerful lobbies work their will, slowly, persistently, bit by bit — in other words, how Washington works.

	...The “push out” provision reversed a piece of the 2010 Dodd-Frank law that prohibited banks from trading some of their most exotic financial instruments in units covered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal Reserve. The idea was to make sure trades in derivatives, credit-default swaps and other instruments that helped spur the financial crisis of 2008 would not be insured by taxpayers if they went bad.

	The nation’s biggest banks have been trying to reverse the provision ever since. A stand-alone bill to repeal the measure was drafted nearly word for word by Citigroup. It passed the House in 2013 by a comfortable 292-122 margin, with 70 Democrats in support.

	...The Senate ignored the House bill, so bank lobbyists took another route: the appropriations committee. Lawmakers are not supposed to legislate policy changes in spending bills. Those bills are supposed to spend money — perhaps with strings attached, but without broad policy changes.

	Mr. Yoder, instead, moved to attach an entire financial reform measure to the annual financial services and general government-spending bill. Aides to the congressman said he was in no way carrying water for Wall Street. Instead, they said, he was looking out for regional and small banks and for farmers caught up in Dodd-Frank regulations.

	...At the time, Representative José E. Serrano of New York, the ranking Democrat on the financial services subcommittee of the appropriation committee, questioned how a measure so important could be an amendment to a spending bill.

	Ms. Kaptur asked: “I’d like to know, who is really behind this? Who has enough power to bring this before this committee?”

	But when it came time for a vote, Democrats did not even bother asking that the names of those in support or opposed be recorded.

	Mr. Yoder was an odd choice to offer the amendment. To the broader public, his main claim to fame is a 2012 naked swim in the sea where the Bible says Jesus walked on water, a dip that prompted a public apology as he faced his first re-election campaign.

	Securities and investment firms are his largest campaign contributors, but he insisted his interests lay elsewhere.

	“This essentially is about creating predictability,” Mr. Yoder said as he laid out the “push out” amendment. “It’s about consumer protection, and financial protection, and lastly it’s about jobs.”

	Mr. Serrano formally objected to the measure’s inclusion when the spending bills passed by the House were lumped together last week into one huge bill to finance virtually all of the government. Representative Maxine Waters of California, the ranking Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, teamed with Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, to try for one last stand.

	But that effort was undercut by the White House, which did not want to risk a government shutdown, and by Senate Democratic leaders, whose focus was elsewhere.


If our representatives are desperate enough for campaign funding to spend 30 hours a week fundraising, they aren't spending much time thinking about their constituents. They might have little choice but to listen to their donors over the public at large. But they aren't stupid: they know our country is founded on the principle of "government for the people" and not "government for the highest bidder", they know political donations are watered-down bribery, they know about 80% of Republicans and Democrats alike want it to stop, and they know it will take a Constitutional amendment to stop it. But when the amendment came, they blocked it.

Americans understandably distrust Wall Street after the 2008 financial crisis. U.S. politicians know their constituents, across both parties, want reform to stop it from happening again. Instead, they used they used the 2014 spending bill--and the threat of government shutdown--to let Citibank rewrite our laws so that the same risky behavior that helped crash our economy would be insured by taxpayers. Given Wall Street's public image, if political donations are watered-down bribery, this is watered-down treason.

Make no mistake: this is the political culture in Washington--our representatives don't care about us. Above are two, but there are countless examples to draw from. And most Americans today understand this: the image of a lying, self-serving politician is a cliche that often ends up in the butt-end of jokes on American comedy shows. But Americans must understand how dangerous this culture of corruption or "watered-down corruption" is for our country. The events of the past several months have shown that, in this political culture, the jump from watered-down treason to actual treason might not be that difficult for some U.S. politicians. 

In the months leading up to the 2016 U.S. election, some current and former intelligence officials were very concerned that the Russian government would use cyber attacks to interfere with vote tallies:


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/election-hacks-russian/
	Federal officials already are investigating cyberattacks at the Democratic National Committee and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, believed to be the work of hackers tied to the Russian government. Trolling a private organization’s emails is one thing, cyberexperts say, but breaching state election systems to undermine the integrity of the November ballot would be quite another.

	“The mere access to those systems is incredibly concerning to me,” said Sean Kanuck, former national intelligence officer for cyber issues at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. “I think that the manipulation of election data or voting systems would warrant a national security response.”


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/elections/2016/08/03/dhs-may-increase-protections-voting-systems-thwart-hackers/87996990/
	Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said Wednesday the federal government should consider designating the U.S. election process as "critical infrastructure" to give the voting system greater protection against cyber attacks.


http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/cia-prepping-possible-cyber-strike-against-russia-n666636
	The Obama administration is contemplating an unprecedented cyber covert action against Russia in retaliation for alleged Russian interference in the American presidential election, U.S. intelligence officials told NBC News.

	...The covert action plan is designed to protect the U.S. election system and insure that Russian hackers can't interfere with the November vote, officials say. Another goal is to send a message to Russia that it has crossed a line, officials say. 


And by September, U.S. intelligence officials were sure that the Russian government intended to help elect Trump. They briefed top Congressional leaders, the "Gang of Eight," asking for help to secure voting systems from Russian tampering:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/obama-orders-review-of-russian-hacking-during-presidential-campaign/2016/12/09/31d6b300-be2a-11e6-94ac-3d324840106c_story.html
	Secret CIA assessment says Russia was trying to help Trump win White House

	...“It is the assessment of the intelligence community that Russia’s goal here was to favor one candidate over the other, to help Trump get elected,” said a senior U.S. official briefed on an intelligence presentation made to U.S. senators. “That’s the consensus view.”

	...In September, during a secret briefing for congressional leaders, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) voiced doubts about the veracity of the intelligence, according to officials present.

	...The White House’s reluctance to take that risk left Washington weighing more-limited measures, including the “naming and shaming” approach of publicly blaming Moscow.

	By mid-September, White House officials had decided it was time to take that step

	...Specifically, the White House wanted congressional leaders to sign off on a bipartisan statement urging state and local officials to take federal help in protecting their voting-registration and balloting machines from Russian cyber-intrusions.

	...In a secure room in the Capitol used for briefings involving classified information, administration officials broadly laid out the evidence U.S. spy agencies had collected, showing Russia’s role in cyber-intrusions in at least two states and in hacking the emails of the Democratic organizations and individuals.

	And they made a case for a united, bipartisan front in response to what one official described as “the threat posed by unprecedented meddling by a foreign power in our election process.”

	...According to several officials, McConnell raised doubts about the underlying intelligence and made clear to the administration that he would consider any effort by the White House to challenge the Russians publicly an act of partisan politics.


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/06/us/trump-russia-cia-john-brennan.html
	But Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican majority leader, resisted, questioning the underpinnings of the intelligence, according to officials with knowledge of the discussions. Mr. McConnell ultimately agreed to a softer version of the letter, which did not mention the Russians but warned of unnamed “malefactors” who might seek to disrupt the elections through online intrusion. The letter, dated Sept. 28, was signed by Mr. McConnell, Mr. Reid, Speaker Paul D. Ryan and Representative Nancy Pelosi, the ranking Democrat.


http://www.politico.com/f/?id=00000157-7606-d0b2-a35f-7e1f2aac0001
	Congress of the United States
	September 28, 2016

	...Today, the states face the challenge of malefactors that are seeking to use cyberattacks to disrupt the administration of our elections. We urge the states to take full advantage of the robust public and private sector resources available to help them ...We trust that you will take the steps necessary to meet the new challenges of the 21st century by securing your election systems against cyberattacks.


http://thehill.com/policy/cybersecurity/300354-33-states-accept-dhs-help-with-election-cybersecurity
	On Friday, the DHS together with the Office of the Director of National Intelligence formally attributed the hack of the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and other political organizations to Russia but said they were not ready to pin recent probing of state election systems to the Russians.

	Some states have resisted accepting help from the agency, which is weighing whether to designate election systems as critical infrastructure.

	Opponents say it amounts to a federal takeover of what has traditionally been a local process, and the proposal has drawn some pushback from congressional leaders.

	Accepting assistance "does not entail federal regulation or binding federal directives of any kind, and we would oppose any efforts of the federal government to exercise any degree of control over the states' administration of elections by designating systems as critical infrastructure," wrote Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), in a letter urging states to take DHS up on its offer.


https://econsnapshot.com/2016/12/06/electronic-voting-machines-and-the-election/
	...what we do know is that results in key swing states differ in counties with electronic voting. Further, the patterns in these counties are not exhibited by other similar but not electorally important counties across the country. Additionally, electronic voting had no impact in swing states during the 2012 election. Taken together, it seems tough to dismiss the correlations that we have found in the data.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/obama-orders-review-of-russian-hacking-during-presidential-campaign/2016/12/09/31d6b300-be2a-11e6-94ac-3d324840106c_story.html
	McConnell’s office did not respond to a request for comment. After the election, Trump chose McConnell’s wife, Elaine Chao, as his nominee for transportation secretary.


But senator McConnell blocked the effort to secure our voting machines from Russian attacks, making it clear he would "consider any effort by the White House to challenge the Russians publicly an act of partisan politics." At best, he made it impossible to know for sure if the results of our election are valid. At worst, he helped the Okhrana install one of their useful idiots as President of the United States. The media and "experts" will tell you that cyber attacks are the greatest threat we face from the Russian government, but even a handful of influence agents can make us lose a cyberwar before it starts. McConnell knew that the Russian government wanted to install Trump, and he chose to help them.

McConnell was openly aiding the Russian Government at least by September. Two months later, Senate Republicans unanimously elected him Senate Majority leader (http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/sens-schumer-mcconnell-elected-senate-leaders-n684736).

If the Russian government really did interfere with vote tallies, a bipartisan select committee might have been able to tell us. For every other major attack on our country, Congress has formed a select committee to investigate. But not for this one: McConnell came out to block a select committee into Russia's activities late December 2016, claiming that "we have a Senate Intelligence Committee and a House Intelligence Committee, run by knowledgeable, responsible people." The chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee went on to lie to the press about contacts between the Trump Campaign and Russian officials, something he specifically agreed to investigate after initially refusing to. The chairman of the House intelligence committee went on to make up an ever-shifting story to validate Trump's bogus wiretapping claim, before stalling the House investigation until he was forced to recuse himself (but not before the Speaker of the House publicly declared "full confidence" in him).

It's noteworthy that for both chairmen, their conduct has hurt their political image with no apparent gain for themselves. A month after McConnell blocked a select committee, the CIA released the aforementioned "Soviets in India: Moscow's Major Penetration Program" report, saying, among other things, that 40% of Indira Gandhi's Congress were on the Soviet's payroll. Both chairmen were at the CIA briefing with McConnell and both had been briefed that Russia intended to install Trump.

It is important for Americans to understand the very real possibility that some of our politicians not only don't care about us, they are actively working against us. Tan Zhenlin prolonged the Great Chinese Famine for years, and later admitted to it. Before attempting to flee to the Soviet Union, Lin Biao helped direct the Cultural Revolution, killing millions more of his own people and erasing parts of Chinese culture that had survived for thousands of years. As reported by the CIA, FBI, and NSA, the Okhrana has long been influencing our politics--they have installed or recruited agents in our Government before (see https://pastebin.com/NkuFjCBh  and http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2014/10/samuel-dickstein-congressman-russian-spy-111641), and almost certainly continue to do so today. This is what their agents do.

And our Government knows this. Everything I have been sending to you, I have also been sending to Congress and the White House. They know about the CIA's report on the Soviets in India. They know our allies in Ukraine desperately need weapons (http://www.newsweek.com/pentagon-plans-more-support-ukraine-buffer-zone-mooted-357540), and yet they abandoned their commitment to arm Ukraine at the behest of the Trump campaign and publicly defended their decision (https://medium.com/@bb06/errata-and-addenda-d3d7facc50b3). They know how the Okhrana's influence operations work, how the Okhrana attacks countries by installing spies and useful idiots, how they used Mao to starve China, and they know what the Okhrana does to countries once they gain power.

Right now, they also know that President Trump, in the middle of the highest profile investigation into a President's administration we've ever seen, fired the director of the FBI--saying he was thinking of "this Russia thing" when he did it--and then went on to threaten him over twitter. And, knowing all this, what do they do? The Senate Majority leader, Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, and Speaker of the House immediately came out to "forcefully reject" calls for an independent prosecutor:


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/05/10/mcconnell-rejects-call-for-special-prosecutor-238206
	After a flurry of GOP statements Tuesday night criticizing Trump for axing Comey so suddenly, there were no new Republican calls on Wednesday for a special prosecutor or select committee to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 presidential elections or possible collusion with the Trump campaign. In fact, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and Senate Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) on Wednesday forcefully rejected calls for an independent prosecutor or commission.


http://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/11/paul_ryan_democratic_push_for_special_prosecutor_not_a_good_idea.html

	BAIER: ...Senator McCain and a few others are calling for a special prosecutor...

	RYAN: I don't think that's a good idea.

	BAIER: Why is that not a good idea?

	RYAN: Yes. I don't think that's a good idea. I think we can -- first of all, we have three investigations going on right now. We have a House investigation by our Intelligence Committee, which is the appropriate committee to do that, I believe.

	And we have the Senate Intelligence Committee -- you just played Richard Burr -- doing an investigation. And you have the FBI investigating all things Russia. 

	...So I really do believe that these three investigations are the way to go.


https://constitutioncenter.org/blog/constitution-check-does-the-fbi-have-power-to-decide-who-gets-prosecuted
	But the public may not always understand that the FBI does not have the job of deciding who should, or should not, be prosecuted for crime.  It was created to do investigations – period.  When it finishes one of its probes, it can and usually does make recommendations, but someone else has the job of deciding what to do with the results of those investigations – an actual prosecutor.


Speaker Ryan is no dummy--he knows what a special prosecutor is for, that it isn't an "extra" investigation. But he tells it that way to the public. He knows a hostile foreign power is attacking our country and he will lie for them. Ryan, along with McConnell and the two Intelligence Committee chairs, was also briefed that the Russian government intended to install Trump.

Reasonable people have consistently demanded Congress appoint a special prosecutor, and Congress has consistently ignored them. They rejected calls for a special prosecutor after leaks to the press revealed collusion between Trump associates and the Russian government, after the Intelligence Committee chairs misconduct, after the FBI confirmed associates of Trump were under investigation for colluding with the Russian Government, and after the President fired the head of the only investigation that could lead to criminal charges against his administration. At this point, the takeaway from all this is, to put it bluntly: you'd have to be a fool to think they are going to appoint a truly independent prosecutor or allow any independent investigation by their own free will.

And even if they do appoint a special prosecutor, they can't be trusted to choose one. The one time it seemed like Congress was "close" to appointing a special prosecutor for the investigation of Trump's associates, the only name that came up was Michael Mukasey, who has close enough ties to top Trump associate Rudy Giuliani that he had long-ago promised to preliminarily recuse himself from any investigation involving him. After this was pointed out, Congress' "progress" toward appointing an "independent" special prosecutor evaporated.

Nor can they be trusted to choose a new FBI director. There are enough politicians covering for this Administration that they shouldn't have a problem finding someone in Washington willing to do the same as head of the FBI. And the Okhrana might have a few spies around for them to pick anyway--for a baseline, they had about 500 in FDR's administration.

On this, the American people must be clear: our Government knows this administration was installed by a hostile foreign power, that this foreign power attacks countries by recruiting and installing agents in their target's government and otherwise "penetrating virtually every sector of society," that they influence governments through blackmail, bribery, and deception, and that historically, whenever they have grabbed enough power in a country, they have used that power to kill as many people as they can get away with. But instead of fighting back, the most senior officials in our Government have been lying for them and covering for them to the point of damaging their own careers. They are helping a foreign power attack us.

I can't say for sure why so many members of our Government are doing this, but I've sent you enough literature on the Okhrana's expertise in blackmail, bribery, and trickery and on the sheer number of spies they employ for you to guess. Coward, sell-out, idiot, spy, or all of the above, the outcome is the same: they're not siding with our country, they're siding with what can only be described as some kind of deranged international death cult.

If what they did to Russia, China, Germany, Ukraine, and India is any indication, things won't turn out well for our country if we let this continue. And how long will this continue? The people who voted for Trump voted for change, and they did get change--for the worse. They were tricked. Next election, how do we stop them from tricking us again? The Okhrana had 500 spies who were good enough to get themselves into some of the highest-levels of FDR's Government--that's 500 foreign agents who would easily make for better politicians than Trump, and 2,000-4,000 years worth of American Presidents working for a foreign power. As our intelligence officials keep warning us: the Russians will be back in 2018 and then will be back in 2020. That means next election, their useful idiots and spies will be back on the ballot too.

And, with this Congress and this Administration, who will tell us who their useful idiots and spies are? Who will stop them? President Trump? Trump just fired the guy investigating them and handed them some of our country's most closely-guarded secrets, endangering the lives of people who, unlike him, actually care about our country (http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-politics/donald-trump-russia-intelligence-leak-americans-killed-cia-agent-bob-baer-us-president-white-house-a7738156.html). He asked Russia to hack us. And if our intelligence officials were worried about the Russian Government hacking vote machines, you should be too. If they decide to tamper with votes next election, who will stop them? McConnell? He helps them hack us.

Unless we see change in this country, we might see a chain of American Congressmen and Presidents working for a foreign power, wittingly or otherwise, each administration setting-up the next. Between Bush, Obama, and Trump, some people might say this has already started.

I believe we need this change now. I don't know for sure what they're planning for our country, perhaps trying to start unnecessary wars and enact harmful policies right now, but I do know it took them three years to starve 40 million people in China, more and more dying the longer it went on. The longer we wait, the more opportunities we give them to wither away our culture, our people, and our ideals, just like they've done to so many others. 

It's time to dissolve the Government and set up a new one. The threat from this Congress and Administration today is real. As far as I can tell, this has been corroborated by people who know a lot more about what's happening than I do. The "Soviets in India" report was declassified for a reason, and someone leaked the "Secret CIA assessment says Russia was trying to help Trump win White House" report to the Washington Post for a reason. I think the former Director of National Intelligence knows what's going on:


http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/14/politics/james-clapper-russia-collusion/index.html
	Former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said Sunday that he thinks US institutions are under assault from President Donald Trump.

	"I think in many ways our institutions are under assault both externally -- and that's the big news here is the Russian interference in our election system -- and I think as well our institutions are under assault internally," Clapper told anchor Jake Tapper on CNN's "State of the Union."

	Pressed if he meant US institutions were under assault internally from the President, Clapper responded, "Exactly."


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	CLAPPER: ...I hope the American people recognize the severity of this threat and that we collectively counter it before it further erodes the fabric of our democracy.


In addition to Congress, I have been sending these emails to thousands of other people with publicly available email addresses:


https://pastebin.com/UZ4pBUaB - Activist emails
https://pastebin.com/9h1QR8ec - Bank emails
https://pastebin.com/eMtKy1Ek - Breitbart emails
https://pastebin.com/pzivhk3q - European Commission emails
https://pastebin.com/f7HpWbYd - Fox emails
https://pastebin.com/GMdPqpyE - Governor emails
https://pastebin.com/DM84sB7q - Harvard student group emails
https://pastebin.com/4FjJ13ep - House emails
https://pastebin.com/LqSsJdAY - Intercept emails
https://pastebin.com/bU3y2sQP - Judicial emails
https://pastebin.com/0SL0HnP7 - Military emails
https://pastebin.com/kxypbuNm - Political party emails
https://pastebin.com/CTfJ2cBZ - MIT student group emails
https://pastebin.com/HHpu2gxE - UK Parliament emails
https://pastebin.com/DiwmW6Jq - Radio emails
https://pastebin.com/V2LNvAuy - Senate emails
https://pastebin.com/1T1nphzr - White House emails


Now how does one go about getting a government to dissolve? As it turns out, you ask them to:


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_revolutions_and_rebellions#2010s


Most of the successful revolutions of the past two decades have been from protests asking for the current administration to resign. Any of you in America could start right now.

I believe this works because governments like ours ultimately derive their power from legitimacy. A police officer might do his government's work because he wants to enforce the law. But what if the government he works for is ran by criminals--the President, Congress, and the Attorney General alike? If the public backs a provisional government that claims legitimacy instead (ran by people who are decidedly NOT criminals), he might think: "Why should I work for a government ran by the very kind of people I want to protect my countrymen from? Why shouldn't I work for the provisional government that people actually support?" And if his fellow officers all the way up to the chief agree, why not just have the whole department start working for the provisional government at once? So you can see, a change in government is nothing more than a change in people's minds.

What this means is that, once enough people start demanding their government leadership to resign, they have little choice but to comply--they don't have any of the power their government positions confer without the acceptance of the people. You can see this in the Tunisian Revolution, the Egyptian Revolution, the Ukrainian Revolution, and many of the revolutions throughout the 21st century: even some of the most corrupt and cruel leaders realized that, once enough of the public demanded their resignation, there was little they could do.

Of course, actually getting our Government to resign is more complicated than that. Most Americans don't know that they can ask the Government to resign and they are not organized. 

Right now, I don't know of any organization that exists that people can rally behind--there is still a lot of work to be done. But I do know one thing you can do right now: TELL PEOPLE. Every American needs to know what's going on and that we can fix it. Tell people who are good at organizing. Tell people who can tell more people. I'm just one person, and that's basically all I've been doing sending these emails, and I think it's already made a difference. It's not hard.

Once enough people know what's going on, we need to organize protests to ask for the Government to resign. Even a small protest matters--if more people notice it than showed up, you've made a difference. If people notice and agree, the next protest will be bigger. A few dozen people dumping tea into the Boston Harbor eventually grew into the American Revolution.

Our leaders are awful enough that most Americans would like to see new ones already, including, I believe, most people in the Government itself. What people need to know most of all is that we can change things ourselves. Once a movement calling for them to resign gains public support, it's very possible we will see city and state governments voicing support as well.

After the Government resigns, we should have a provisional government hold new elections. Elections under a provisional government, if not guaranteed to be free of foreign influence, would at least be free from foreign influence enabled and aided by our own so called "representatives." And unlike some of our elections in the past (see: https://pastebin.com/EzKGUmr3), we can hold these elections in a democratic way. Campaign finance reform and paper ballots would be a start.

None of this is going to happen overnight--there is still a lot of work to be done. But it's worth it. It was worth it last time--two hundred and forty-one years ago, at the start of the American Revolution, we had a government ran by foreign puppets who didn't give a damn about the American people, not so different from what we have today. We kicked them out and built the greatest country on earth.

I believe our country is great, and will continue to be great, because it was built on the idea of government for the people. For more than two centuries, the example we set in upholding this ideal helped bring peace and prosperity to the world. Our politicians today seem content with selling us out and letting the world slip into some kind of quiet despotism. So we can tell them: not while we breath.
