http://www.cnn.com/2017/04/18/politics/trump-taxes-tax-returns/index.html
	1. In 1978 and 1979, Trump reported negative $3.8 million in income and paid no taxes. We know that because of a 1981 gambling commission report in New Jersey that details Trump's income (or lack thereof) as reported in a casino application around that time.

	2. In 1995, Trump reported that he lost $916 million -- an amount that could have allowed him not to pay taxes for nearly the next two decades, according to the New York Times.

	3. In 2005, Trump made $150 million and paid $38 million in taxes, according to documents obtained by investigative reporter David Cay Johnston.

	4. His most recent returns are under audit, according to the White House. Spicer affirmed that fact on Monday. (Note: You can release your taxes publicly even if you are under audit. Richard Nixon did.)


https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2016/dec/15/czechoslovakia-spied-on-donald-trump-ivana-files
	Thursday 15 December 2016 12.00 EST

	Another spy reported in 1977 that Trump’s businesses were “absolutely safe” because they received commissions from the state. The informant added: “Another advantage is the personal relationship [he has] with the American president [presumably Jimmy Carter] and the fact that he is completely tax-exempt for the next 30 years.” 


so what is going on that makes him completely tax exempt for the next 30 years (but he paid taxes in 2005 I'm confused), and that makes him "safe" for something--what?


http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/03/politics/donald-trump-tax-return-2016/index.html
	June 3 2017

	Trump has filed for an extension of his 2016 tax return

	..."I don't know. That's a very interesting question. I doubt it. I doubt it. Because they're not going to ... nobody cares about my tax return except for the reporters," he said.

	He added, "Oh, at some point I'll release them. Maybe I'll release them after I'm finished because I'm very proud of them actually. I did a good job."


hmmmm

	At that point White House Director of Strategic Communications Hope Hicks interjected in the interview, saying he'd do so once the audit is over.


what's up with that

	In March, MSNBC obtained two pages of Trump's IRS 1040 form that showed in 2005, Trump paid $38 million in federal income taxes on a reported income of $150 million. They are the only pages of Trump's returns that have been obtained publicly.


http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/05/31/could-the-russia-investigation-reveal-trumps-tax-returns-215212

could it? a reason for Trump to want it to disappear?


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/14/us/politics/donald-trump-taxes.html
	Trump Wrote Off $100 Million in Losses in 2005, Leaked Forms Show

	By PETER BAKER and JESSE DRUCKERMARCH 14, 2017 


so why this if he's "safe" for 30 years?


http://www.cnbc.com/2016/09/26/trump-brags-about-not-paying-taxes-that-makes-me-smart.html
	Donald Trump said he's "smart" by not paying income taxes — and argued that if he did, the money would be "squandered."

	Trump's jaw-dropping statements came after Hillary Clinton launched a fiery attack on the Republican presidential nominee for breaking a four-decade tradition of White House aspirants releasing their federal income tax returns.

	"The only years that anybody's ever seen were a couple of years when he had to turn them over to state authorities when he was trying to get a casino license, and they showed he didn't pay any federal income tax," Clinton said.

	Trump quickly retorted: "That makes me smart." 

------

http://abcnews.go.com/WNT/video/leaked-tax-returns-show-trump-paid-federal-tax-42519612
	Leaked Tax Returns Show Trump Could Have Paid No Federal Tax for Years


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/03/insider/the-time-i-found-donald-trumps-tax-records-in-my-mailbox.html
	By SUSANNE CRAIG

	We felt confident that our reporting was correct. On Saturday night, around 9:10, we were all in the newsroom when our article was posted on nytimes.com. It instantly drew a flood of readers. People were fascinated not only by the story, but also with how we had gotten it. Why did the tipster send the documents to me, of all the reporters out there? Probably because I wrote an exhaustive examination of Mr. Trump’s $650 million of debt in August that drew millions of readers.


she got a secret letter of Donald Trump's mysterious 1995 tax returns

show he lost a billion dollars


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/10/donald-trump-taxes-questions-229024
	According to The New York Times, which said it was mailed three pages of Trump's state returns for 1995, his losses stemmed from “mismanagement of three Atlantic City casinos, his ill-fated foray into the airline business and his ill-timed purchase of the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan." He could have used that to avoid paying federal taxes for as many as 18 years, the paper estimates. 


	Why is this allowed?

	...It’s partly to account for the fact that the vagaries of running a business may not always match up with the calendar-year schedule on which they pay taxes. (The way Trump's companies are structured, he records profits and losses on his personal income tax forms.)


hmmm


remember reading about some kind of conspiracy where he bundles-up all his losses in one year and that somehow helps him hide is tax returns and do shady things

	Or consider highly cyclical businesses, like agriculture, where a farmer might earn $300,000 one year (putting him or her in a high tax bracket) and nothing the next two years. Allowing these "net operating losses," as they're known among experts, helps smooth those ups and downs. 

	This routine practice was particularly important during the recent Great Recession when many businesses were hemorrhaging money, which allowed them to reduce their taxes for years to come. 

	“In each year from 2008 to 2012, approximately 15 to 19 percent of all active corporations had their income completely offset in this manner,” the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office said in a report released in April. It also said that at least two-thirds of all businesses did not have federal tax liabilities between 2006 and 2012, in part because they didn't make any money. 


ok that sounds right, loss lets him avoid filing at all I think?

	It estimates he made $50 million, based on his fees for the television show "The Apprentice" and the “roughly $45 million he was paid between 1995 and 2009 when he was chairman or chief executive of the publicly traded company he created to assume ownership of his troubled Atlantic City casinos.” 


Doing the apprentice = Trump actually poor? or getting there? or just arrogant likes attention


------


http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2016/06/the-great-trump-tax-mysteries
	by Nicholas Shaxson


	What to make of all this? Should we dismiss it as merely more Donald hype? Or are more serious issues at stake?

	One can, of course, disagree about his total net worth—not least because, well, how much value should you assign to the unique Trump brand?


http://www.latimes.com/opinion/op-ed/la-oe-dreier-trump-tax-returns-20170307-story.html



https://www.counterpunch.org/2017/04/19/trumps-tax-returns-whats-there-to-hide/
	April 19, 2017

	The next most favorable excuse might be the cynical and fundamentally unacceptable conclusion that the political benefits of concealing the information outweigh the political costs. Maybe Donald Trump’s tax returns would reveal that Melania Trump likes to give money to Planned Parenthood


	...The real reason that Donald Trump will never publish his tax returns is likely summed up in two words: foreign reporting. While foreign reporting requirements can often be separate from a person’s tax filings, Form 8938: Statement of Specified Foreign Financial Assets is required to be filed with the tax returns of individuals who have certain valuable overseas foreign assets, and Donald Trump likely has dozens, if not hundreds, of such reportable foreign financial assets. The “smoking gun” in Donald Trump’s tax returns is most likely that he has so much of his wealth in foreign assets that his personal financial interests are irreconcilable with the interests of the American people, and his tax returns, if published in their entirety, would reveal conflicts of interests so intractable and damning that they would be without precedent in modern political history. America’s foreign policy may be driven in large part by which specific countries Donald Trump has chosen to invest his father’s fortune in.


interesting that counterpunch is saying this

	In the face of certain corruption in the White House, Americans should call for transparency now more than ever. The Trump Administration will only be as transparent as the American public demands it to be, and so when the White House makes announcements like the declaration that they will no longer publish the White House visitor logs, the American public should forcefully reject these decisions as fundamentally unacceptable to the values of our democracy. As Donald Trump continues to break historic precedent in failing to publish his tax returns, the American public can only assume it is because Donald Trump’s conflicts of interest are vast and pervasive that they impair his ability to serve another day as president. The best thing for the American public to do is to demand transparency and accountability, vocally and persistently, and not acquiesce to the corruption by easing up on the public pressure. Americans should take to the streets and loudly denounce the sham that has become the American presidency until the White House is compelled to cave to mounting public pressure and introduce desperately needed transparency and reforms, beginning with the publication of the White House visitor logs and Donald Trump’s tax returns.


------


http://www.deathandtaxesmag.com/305350/trump-not-pay-federal-income-taxes-18-years-nyt-1995/
	Trump’s former accountant, Jack Mitnick, confirmed that the documents were “legit,” explaining why the $915,729,293 figure on the forms looks so odd. According to Mitnick, the computer program he used back in ’95 wouldn’t let him print nine-figure losses. It apparently only went up to seven figures, because when Mitnick printed it out he had to add the “9” and “1” with a typewriter.


idk about that

seems fishy

although if you were going to forge it anyway would be a weird thing to do

but actually if forged "properly" would be tricky to add the digits anyway since would be running out of space?

idk


	Trump released a statement regarding the tax returns, arguing that because the documents were obtained illegally (they were mailed to the New York Times), this only goes to show “the New York Times, like establishment media in general, is an extension of the Clinton Campaign, the Democratic Party and their global special interests.” 


lol

	The incredible skills Mr. Trump has shown in building his business 


he tried to found a fucking airline


https://www.forbes.com/sites/beltway/2016/11/01/the-art-of-the-dodge-trumps-916-million-of-net-operating-losses/#4b6327da128f
	In the early 1990s, Trump was in deep financial trouble and pressed his lenders to restructure his debt. But, based on documents filed in bankruptcy court, Trump did not report the income from restructuring his large public borrowings. He excluded the income despite reservations expressed by his own lawyers.  We do not know whether the IRS ever challenged his position.


https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/10/07/us/elections/donald-trump-tax-advantages-deductions-losses.html

so he can pull all sorts of tricks, but what I really want to know is why does it matter to the StB if Trump is "tax exempt" for the next 30 years?

I mean he'd still have to file tax returns if he doesn't pay, right?


------


http://www.newsmax.com/Politics/Survey-Trump-Tax-Returns/2017/01/18/id/769154/
	By Jeffrey Rodack  

	Americans are split regarding Donald Trump's tax returns, with 45 percent caring that the president-elect has not released his returns while 44 percent do not, according to a new Morning Consult/Politico poll.

The number represents a significant change from May 2016 when 67 percent of registered voters said all presidential candidates should be required to release their tax returns, compared with 21 percent who said they should not, according to the poll.

Here are the survey's highlights:

    20 percent of Republicans said they care that Trump hasn’t released his returns, compared to 60 percent who said in May all candidates should disclose their tax forms.
    71 percent of Democrats said they care about his tax returns, while 68 percent said in May all candidates should release their tax statements.
    41 percent of independents said they care about Trump’s tax returns, compared to 71 percent in May who said all candidates should release their tax forms.


http://www.newsmax.com/Newsfront/ICE-thomas-homan-immigration-agents/2017/06/13/id/795774/
 	Acting ICE Chief Homan: Immigration Agents Treated Unfairly

	By Jeffrey Rodack


http://www.newsmax.com/Politics/democrats-joe-lieberman-fbi/2017/05/19/id/791158/
 	Why Dems Don't Want Lieberman as FBI Director

	By Jeffrey Rodack

	...Democrats view Lieberman, the party's 2000 vice presidential candidate, as having committed partisan treason when he endorsed Republican Sen. John McCain's bid for the White House in 2008, CNN said.


https://www.currentaffairs.org/2017/01/please-can-we-not-have-a-rally-about-trumps-tax-returns
	Please Can We Not Have A Rally About Trump’s Tax Returns

	by Nathan J. Robinson


https://www.currentaffairs.org/author/curaffairs

idk this guy sketchy


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/04/us/politics/donald-trump-money.html
	By RUSS BUETTNER

	The recent negative cash flow at two of Mr. Trump’s premier properties raises possible motivations he may have for not releasing his tax returns: They could show that his success is not as he has claimed, or that he pays little or nothing in federal taxes. That could be a continuation of a long trend. An article last month in The Times revealed that Mr. Trump’s 1995 tax records showed a $916 million loss that could have allowed Mr. Trump to legally avoid paying federal income taxes for up to 18 years.


guy writes a decent amount on Trump's taxes, more than most it seems



https://newrepublic.com/minutes/134701/donald-trump-wont-release-tax-returns
	Alex Shepard

	Is this why Donald Trump won’t release his tax returns?

	They have been one of the most persistent mysteries of the 2016 election cycle. Refusing to release his returns has undoubtedly created political fallout, the thinking goes, therefore Trump must be hiding something substantial. But what? 

	The conventional wisdom for much of the year has been that Trump is hiding the fact that he is not as wealthy as he claims (Tim O’Brien’s Trump Nation makes a very compelling case that he is not), or that he pays no or almost no income tax, or both. (It should be noted that Trump’s tax returns almost certainly would not reveal his net worth.) But recent investigations by The Washington Post suggest another possible answer to the riddle: Trump has a charitable giving problem. 


is this what the Soviet secret police are so interested in?


https://newrepublic.com/article/143561/rights-war-liberal-democracy
	The Right’s War Against Liberal Democracy
	Nancy MacLean discusses her new book about James McGill Buchanan, who helped shape the modern right’s antipathy toward democracy itself.
	By Alex Shephard


https://newrepublic.com/article/140874/just-happened-review-president-trumps-fifth-week
	While the selection of McMaster over Bolton is good for anyone who thinks that war is maybe not the greatest, it’s worth pointing out that McMaster, as an active-duty service member, had to take the job and that Bolton was only passed over because Trump hates facial hair. 


huh

https://newrepublic.com/article/143072/whats-next-hillary-clinton


------

http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-taxes-russia-idUSKBN18827K
	A review of President Donald Trump's tax returns from the past 10 years showed no income from Russian sources outside of a few exceptions, and indicated he did not owe money to Russian lenders, his lawyers said in a letter released by the White House on Friday.


10 years


stb was talking about this 30+ years ago...

Trump was having debt problems too?


------

http://nypost.com/1999/11/10/trump-bares-naked-ambition-prez-hopeful-stuns-reform-party-with-raunchy-stern-talk/
	1999

	Trump’s political adviser, Roger Stone, said it’s unlikely Trump would release his tax returns – as many presidential candidates do in the spirit of full disclosure – to verify Trump’s worth.


hmmm


------

http://www.nytimes.com/1995/04/12/business/trump-is-selling-plaza-hotel-to-saudi-and-asian-investors.html

 	The Plaza Hotel, long a symbol of luxury and grandeur in New York and more recently the crown jewel in Donald J. Trump's shaky business empire, is being sold to two of the world's richest men: a Saudi Arabian Prince and one of Singapore's leading entrepreneurs. 

 	...In essence, the buyers are taking over the Plaza by assuming most of its debts. None of the money from the deal will go to Mr. Trump, who acquired the hotel for about $400 million in 1988. Rather, it will go to banks in the United States that had lent money to Mr. Trump and to banks in Japan that hold a mortgage on the hotel property. 


Trump having some debt problems? sold to Saudi Prince... interesting

 	...Mr. Trump currently owns 51 percent of the Plaza. The rest is owned by the banks, which obtained their interest from Mr. Trump three years ago in exchange for a substantial reduction in his bank debt. Mr. Wallach said those involved hoped to complete the deal by summer. 

 	...Regardless of his financial troubles, Mr. Trump and his organization have run the Plaza quite well, said Thomas McConnell, a hotel expert with the accounting firm of Arthur Andersen & Company. 


http://articles.latimes.com/1995-04-12/business/fi-53901_1_plaza-hotel
	Prince Alwaleed bin Talal bin Abdulaziz al Saud and CDL Hotels said Tuesday that they will spend $28 million to renovate the hotel over the next two years and inject another $75 million to pay down a portion of the hotel's $300 million mortgage within three years. The partners would not disclose the percentage of the hotel each will own.

	The deal is subject to approval by the consortium of banks, led by Citibank, that has controlled the Plaza since 1993, after Trump was unable to make loan payments. The transaction is expected to be completed in June. Trump purchased the hotel for $425 million in 1988 from Texas oilman Sid Bass.


failing to pay debts? hmmm


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/saudi-prince-alwaleed-donald-trump_us_56aafa72e4b0010e80e99806
	Billionaire Saudi Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Trolls Trump: ‘I Bailed You Out Twice’
	The prince has offered to bail Trump out a third time, too.

	...The exchange was initiated by Trump, who had retweeted a badly Photoshopped image showing the prince with Fox News host Megyn Kelly, calling him a co-owner of the network: 

	“@BradCross4: @Drudge_Report_ @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/Ur1qgG291Z“


wtf

	The prince’s tweet included news stories showing that he bought Trump’s yacht in 1991, which had been turned over to creditors when he was $900 million in debt, according to Buzzfeed. 

	He also included a link to a story showing that he was part of the group that bought New York City’s Plaza Hotel from Trump in 1995. As part of the deal, bin Talal paid off Trump’s debt on the hotel in what the New York Times said was “a defeat for the real estate developer.”

	Trump’s tweet also claimed bin Talal is “co-owner” of Fox News. While the prince is an investor in News Corp, his stake is worth 1 percent, according to CNN.


so wtf was Trump thinking? did Stone put him up to this?


http://www.stonezone.com/article.php?id=676
	2:30 PM ET June 4, 2015

	The 9/11 review panel included one local FBI report from the Florida investigation that said Abdulaziz and Anoud al-Hijji, the prominent Saudi couple who “fled” their home, had “many connections” to “individuals associated with the terrorist attacks on 9/11/2001.” The panel’s report also doesn’t explain why visitor security logs for the gated Sarasota community and photos of license tags matched vehicles driven by the hijackers, including 9/11 ringleader Mohamed Atta.

maybe he did... using 28 pages?


http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2015/12/14/saudi-prince-silent-amid-tweeted-jabs-trump-coulter-stone/
 	Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal is ducking for cover amid a light barrage of tweeted jeers from Donald Trump, Ann Coulter and Roger Stone. 

	Stone jumped in, and used twitter — which is part-owned by the Saudi prince — to tout his new book which apparently suggests the prince was in business with the Bush family.

	Saudi Prince @Alwaleed_Talal is heavily invested in @JebBush – family bought Bushs years ago -Jan 26th pic.twitter.com/drRortIWvN — Roger Stone (@RogerJStoneJr) December 12, 2015


http://www.cnn.com/2016/07/15/politics/congress-releases-28-pages-saudis-9-11/index.html
	Congress releases secret '28 pages' on alleged Saudi 9/11 ties

	By Jim Sciutto, Ryan Browne and Deirdre Walsh, CNN

	Updated 10:44 PM ET, Fri July 15, 2016


but god forbid they release Donald Trump's tax returns


https://www.pastemagazine.com/articles/2016/07/the-32-most-important-passages-from-the-un-redacte.html
	Also according to FBI documents, the mosque was built in 1998 from funding provided by Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Abdulaziz. The mosque was reportedly attended by members of the Saudi Consulate in Los Angeles and is widely recognized for its anti-Western views…

hmmm


https://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/05/us/claims-against-saudis-cast-new-light-on-secret-pages-of-9-11-report.html
	Saudi Princes’ Deep Ties to the West

	By CARL HULSE FEB. 4, 2015 

	Three of the Saudi princes accused by Zacarias Moussaoui, a member of Al Qaeda, have strong diplomatic and business ties to the United States.

	Now new claims by Zacarias Moussaoui, a convicted former member of Al Qaeda, that he had high-level contact with officials of the Saudi government in the prelude to Sept. 11 have brought renewed attention to the inquiry’s withheld findings, which lawmakers and relatives of those killed in the attacks have tried unsuccessfully to declassify.


	...Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, at 59 is a grandson of Saudi Arabia's founder, King Abdulaziz, and is chairman of the Kingdom Holding Company and the wealthiest member of the royal family. (The rapper Busta Rhymes name-checks Prince Alwaleed in the 2008 song “Arab Money.”) He owns Rotana, the Arab world's largest entertainment company, and holds significant investments in Citigroup, TimeWarner, Twitter and Apple, among other companies. He had a large stake in News Corporation until Tuesday, when his company sold $188 million worth of its shares, according to Financial Times.

	After the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, Prince Alwaleed offered Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani $10 million for the Twin Towers Fund, but Mr. Giuliani rejected it after the prince criticized American policy in the Middle East. 

	...Representative Walter B. Jones, a North Carolina Republican pushing for the release of Part 4, said the Moussaoui claims might give momentum to the declassification effort. He said he was approached Wednesday on the House floor by lawmakers inquiring how to view the 28 pages.


fucking god dammit

Donald Trump's tax returns sound complicated...


so what does this all mean?

Trump did 9/11?


------


http://www.nytimes.com/1995/10/25/nyregion/crowning-the-comeback-king.html
 	Though there are still four years to go in the 90's, business and government leaders in New York honored Donald J. Trump yesterday for pulling off what they called "the comeback of the decade." 


no kidding! how'd he do it?

 	Mr. Trump, the developer who came to epitomize opulent wealth during the 80's before tumbling into deep financial trouble, has managed to erase much of his debt and is moving ahead with major projects at a time other developers are idling. 

 	...After the collapse of the real estate market of the 1980's, Mr. Trump's company was left holding some $8.8 billion in debt, causing his personal net worth to drop to a low of about $1 billion in the red by 1991. 


wasn't that around the time he was talking about some "amazing deal" with the Soviets?


http://www.nytimes.com/1995/12/07/business/40-wall-street-is-sold-to-trump.html
	 The real estate developer Donald J. Trump completed his purchase of 40 Wall Street yesterday, buying the distinguished 70-story office building, across the street from the New York Stock Exchange, for a price estimated at less than $8 million.

	Mr. Trump in July had disclosed an agreement to buy the building, which contains 1.1 million square feet of space, from Kinson Properties of Hong Kong. Kinson paid $8 million for it in 1993.

	While representatives of Mr. Trump declined to disclose the price he had paid, published reports said it was less than $8 million.

	In July, representatives of the developer said he planned to spend $100 million converting the building, which is 89 percent vacant, to more modern offices.

	The land on which the building stands is owned by the Hinenberg family of Germany. 


less than $8 million, but $100 million to rennovate? that doesn't sound right...

and Kinson payed $8 million for it, why sell at a loss?


------

http://www.nytimes.com/1998/06/29/nyregion/businessman-of-mystery-arts-patron-dogged-by-fbi-claim-of-russian-mob-ties.html
	After two visits to scout business opportunities in New York and Los Angeles in 1990, he said, he came for good in 1992, leaving his wife and their grown son, Roman, in Moscow. With a nest egg of $300,000 and a $150,000 advance payment against future clothing shipments to trading partners in Russia, he said, he bought a $400,000 co-op apartment on the 31st floor of the Trump Plaza on Third Avenue and 61st Street, and later bought a $450,000 apartment in Miami.


Russia mob boss living in Trump tower? ok


https://whowhatwhy.org/2017/03/27/fbi-cant-tell-trump-russia/
	The Federal Bureau of Investigation cannot tell us what we need to know about Donald Trump’s contacts with Russia. Why? Because doing so would jeopardize a long-running, ultra-sensitive operation targeting mobsters tied to Russian President Vladimir Putin — and to Trump.

ok?


	The FBI apparently knew, directly or indirectly, based upon available facts, that prior to Election Day, Trump and his campaign had personal and business dealings with certain individuals and entities linked to criminal elements — including reputed Russian gangsters — connected to Putin.


	...Трамп и его деньги (Trump and his Money)

	As Trump lost access to traditional lines of credit, his desperate need for financing led to sources that are murky, at best, including monies traceable back to the former Soviet Union — a circumstance that may explain Trump’s refusal to release his tax returns.

	According to two pages of Trump’s 2005 tax returns, purportedly sent anonymously to reporter David Cay Johnston, Trump appeared to make an enormous amount of money that year — earning more than $153 million, which put him into a tiny class of super-rich Americans, probably numbering in the dozens.

	Trump’s windfall seems to have developed around the same time that investors from countries of the former Soviet Union started opening the cash spigot.

hmm


	...Immediately after September 11, 2001, Sater received a call from the chief of a new section in the FBI who wanted to talk to him about Stingers, according to Salvatore Lauria in The Scorpion and the Frog, co-authored with journalist David S. Barry. Months later, Sater joined Bayrock — the real estate development company with offices in Trump Tower — and he was soon partnering in business deals with Donald Trump himself. This raises some interesting questions: Did Sater take the job at Bayrock at the FBI’s direction? Indeed, was Sater’s business relationship with Trump at the FBI’s behest?


wtf am I reading

idk Trump did 9/11

teamed up with Putin

and its all in his tax returns


	...The firm was founded by Tevfik Arif, a former Communist Party functionary in the Soviet republic of what is now Kazakhstan. Arif had formed another entity called Bayrock in Moscow in 1989, during the very last years of the Soviet Union.


I remember reading about that guy


	During the five years Sater worked at Bayrock, he traveled throughout the former Soviet Union, ostensibly looking for real estate sites to develop with the Trump Organization — while also allegedly laundering hundreds of millions of dollars in illicit funds from mysterious sources in the former Soviet Union. And all the while he was working as an informant for the FBI.

lol wut

------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayrock_Group
	After moving the Bayrock Group to the 24th floor of Trump Tower,[9] Arif developed a relationship with billionaire businessman Donald Trump. Bayrock went on to collaborate with The Trump Organization on projects in Turkey, Poland, Ukraine, Russia, Arizona, Colorado, New York, and Florida.[2]


more Russian mobsters in Trump tower?


http://www.oregonlive.com/today/index.ssf/2017/05/donald_trump_closely_tied_to_r.html
	President Trump, the documentary claims, is deeply involved with Russian "syndicate crime boss" and former FBI informant Felix Sater. (Trump has stated he would have a hard time recognizing Sater if the man walked into the room.) The film also delves into Trump's longstanding business relationship with Kazakhstan-born Bayrock LLC chief Tevfik Arif, who Trump biographer Michael D'Antonio says "probably" has funneled illicit money into the U.S.


	...Why would Trump, a famous and wealthy businessman for more than 30 years, get involved with such characters?

	To answer that question, the documentary's producers turned to James Henry, a lawyer, tax-evasion expert and "economic investigator."

	Henry says that because of Trump's 1990s bankruptcies, which were mostly related to his involvement in the casino business, "none of the major New York banks would lend to him. Trump was pretty much unfinance-able."


I see


	He continues:

	"The only way he was able to finance his resurrection after 2000 was the torrent of money flowing out of Russia and former Soviet Union countries like Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan. The investors he got, at that point, were looking for safe havens or opportunities to launder money -- proceeds from, basically, criminal enterprises.


Donald Trump helped launder money for Russian mobsters?


https://www.google.com/search?q=Donald+Trump+is+Orange+Lobster&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwil4J32lunUAhWCMj4KHWK2A-YQ_AUIBigB&biw=960&bih=918


	Adds D'Antonio:

	"It's likely there is Russian money that has flowed into Trump Organization entities in one way or another, and that some of this money may have sources that are scandalous and would pose a big problem for a president. And if the Russians have that information it could be what they're holding over him."

oh my


	"I have concluded, without any question, that Donald Trump may be credibly charged with participating in a racketeering conspiracy based on what happened with Bayrock."



http://www.oregonlive.com/today/index.ssf/2017/06/james_comey_details_tense_conv.html


I like this guy

http://www.oregonlive.com/today/index.ssf/2017/06/hillary_clintons_many_reasons.html


https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-06-21/trump-russia-and-those-shadowy-sater-deals-at-bayrock
	But the Justice Department inquiry led by Mueller now has added flavors. The Post noted that the investigation also includes "suspicious financial activity" involving "Russian operatives." The New York Times was more specific in its account, saying that Mueller is looking at whether Trump associates laundered financial payoffs from Russian officials by channeling them through offshore accounts.

hmmmm

	Trump has repeatedly labeled Comey's and Mueller's investigations "witch hunts," and his lawyers have said that the last decade of his tax returns (which the president has declined to release) would show that he had no income or loans from Russian sources. In May, Trump told NBC that he has no property or investments in Russia. "I am not involved in Russia," he said.

"last decade"

	During the years that Bayrock and Trump did deals together, the company was also a bridge between murky European funding and a number of projects in the U.S. to which the president once lent his name in exchange for handsome fees. Icelandic banks that dealt with Bayrock, for example, were easy marks for money launderers and foreign influence, according to interviews with government investigators, legislators, and others in Reykjavik, Brussels, Paris and London. Trump testified under oath in a 2007 deposition that Bayrock brought Russian investors to his Trump Tower office to discuss deals in Moscow, and said he was pondering investing there.

	"It's ridiculous that I wouldn't be investing in Russia," Trump said in that deposition. "Russia is one of the hottest places in the world for investment."


hmmm

not what he's said recently


	One of Bayrock's principals was a career criminal named Felix Sater who had ties to Russian and American organized crime groups. Before linking up with the company and with Trump, he had worked as a mob informant for the U.S. government, fled to Moscow to avoid criminal charges while boasting of his KGB and Kremlin contacts there, and had gone to prison for slashing apart another man’s face with a broken cocktail glass.

	In a series of interviews and a lawsuit, a former Bayrock insider, Jody Kriss, claims that he eventually departed from the firm because he became convinced that Bayrock was actually a front for money laundering.


no kidding


	Trump has said over the years that he barely knows Sater. In fact, Sater — who former Bayrock employees say met frequently with Trump in the Trump Organization's New York headquarters, once shepherded the president's children around Moscow and carried a Trump Organization business card — apparently has remained firmly in the orbit of the president and his closest advisers.

	Sater made the front page of the New York Times in February for his role in a failed effort — along with Trump’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen — to lobby former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn on a Ukrainian peace proposal.


KGB agents colluding with Trump's campaign?

that and Roger Stone


	When Sater emerged from prison 15 months later, he found his way back into trouble. With a group that included Lauria (who admits to having had ties to organized crime figures and grew up in New York as a close friend of a prominent Mafia boss), Sater opened an investment firm on the penthouse floor of 40 Wall Street, a Trump-owned building in Manhattan. From there, according to federal prosecutors, Sater and his team set about laundering money for the mob and fleecing about $40 million from unwitting and largely elderly investors, a number of whom were Holocaust survivors.


the building Trump bought mysteriously cheap? huh. Right around the time he bought it too.

	By the time law enforcement authorities eventually caught on to the 40 Wall Street operation, Sater had fled to Russia. Lauria visited him there.


"40 wall street operation?"

	Sater "was always hustling and scheming, and his contacts in Russia were the same kind of contacts he had in the United States," Lauria wrote in a 2003 memoir, "The Scorpion and the Frog." "The difference was that in Russia his crooked contacts were links between Russian organized crime, the Russian military, the KGB, and operatives who played both ways, or sometimes three ways."


Russian military at odds with KGB sometimes? remember reading something about KGB trying to infiltrate Russian military

what if RUssian military are the good guys

like KGB and CIA fighting and destroying the world and doing all this wierd shit

and Russian and U.S. military are like "I can't believe we have to deal with this..."


What origanized crime? thought that was basically same as KGB?


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_mafia
	1992–2000: Growth and internationalization

	When the USSR collapsed and a free market economy emerged, organized criminal groups began to take over Russia's economy, with many ex-KGB soldiers and veterans of the Afghan war offering their skills to the crime bosses


context for Trump? a rise in KGB-linked Russian mob 92-2k

	Sater, who had been charged with racketeering and money laundering by the U.S. attorney's office in Brooklyn in connection with the 40 Wall Street scam, eventually decided to return to America and face those charges. He had a card to play, however: his knowledge, gleaned from contacts in Russia, about a small stock of Stinger antiaircraft missiles loose on the black market in Afghanistan that were of interest to U.S. intelligence officials.


"a card to play"--sounds like they made a deal and he got off?


	"We were hoping for a free ride or a get-out-of-jail-free card for our crimes on Wall Street," Lauria wrote of Sater's maneuvering with U.S. officials.


I see


	Many years later, as part of her confirmation hearings to become President Barack Obama's attorney general, Loretta Lynch would note that the cooperation deal she made with Sater when she was the U.S. attorney in Brooklyn lasted for a decade — from 1998 to 2008 — and that Sater gave the government "information crucial to national security and the conviction of over 20 individuals, including those responsible for committing massive financial fraud and members of La Cosa Nostra."


wtf

wonder if it wasn't such a good deal...


	“Felix knew how to be charming and he knew how to be brutally nasty,” says Kriss. “He has a talent for drawing people in. He has charm and charisma. But that’s what con men do.”


right, sounds like a KGB agent


	About a year after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, Sater joined Bayrock, a company that marketed itself as a property developer and had opened Manhattan offices on the 24th floor of a well-known building at 725 Fifth Avenue: Trump Tower.


so the bayrock think happening in 2002?


anyway maybe funding their KGB operations is why they were interested in Trump. Not sure but I guess "being tax-exempt for the next 30 years" made him useful for money laundering? he also set up his business so that it goes to his personal tax returns.


https://books.google.com/books?id=Hs_7zzPzp4IC&pg=PA267&lpg=PA267&dq=tax+%22money+laundering%22+%22carry+over%22+scheme&source=bl&ots=2ljcx9ul9W&sig=o52n2PtqlUgO1mRqutxGOcnldhI&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjJn6H1nOnUAhWV0YMKHa9uBUkQ6AEIIjAA#v=onepage&q=tax%20%22money%20laundering%22%20%22carry%20over%22%20scheme&f=false


maybe something in here


	Bayrock never seemed to be short of money, however. According to Kriss’s lawsuit, the team running the little development firm in Trump Tower could locate funds "month after month, for two years, in fact more frequently, whenever Bayrock ran out of cash." If times got tight, Bayrock's owners would "magically show up with a wire from 'somewhere' just large enough to keep the company going."


hmmm

	It was Sater who initially developed the relationship with Trump, according to Kriss and court records from Trump's lawsuit against me. Sater had made the acquaintance of three Trump Organization executives who then introduced him to their boss. When the Bayrock team met Trump in 2002, the future president was enduring a long stretch in the financial wilderness, having narrowly escaped personal bankruptcy in the early 1990s.

	He eventually emerged from that mess as a pariah among big banks. He was also a determined survivor and tireless self-promoter and he parlayed those skills into recreating himself as a branding machine and golf course developer in the late 1990s and early 2000s.


Sater help him out?

	“Trump was trying to build his brand and Bayrock was trying to market it,” Kriss recalls. “It wasn’t clear who needed each other more. This was before the show, remember.”

	The “show,” of course, was “The Apprentice.” It aired for the first time on Jan. 8, 2004, and became a sensation that vaulted Trump into reality TV stardom. In the real world, Trump's casinos were faltering. But on reality TV, Trump posed as a successful leader and dealmaker who embodied a certain kind of entrepreneurial flair and over-the-top billionairedom — an impression that stuck with tens of millions of TV viewers.

	The popularity of "The Apprentice" also gave the Bayrock-Trump partnership added zing.

	“That put Bayrock in a great position once the show debuted,” Kriss says. “The show did it for Trump, man. Nobody was interested in licensing his name before that.”


Apprentice helped Trump's "brand"

	...It’s not clear how carefully Trump vetted his Bayrock partners. But his lack of concern about their backgrounds — and the potential risk to his own reputation from dealing with them — was part of a pattern. In Atlantic City, he had partnered with men with organized crime ties. Later, he and his children struck deals in Brazil and Azerbaijan with partners who had murky backgrounds or unusual legal entanglements.


Trump's children involved too, shady partners


	...The Trumps, Kriss says, saw Sater "frequently" and valued the relationship because “Felix demonstrated that he was loyal to them.” He says that at one point Sater was meeting with the future president in his Trump Tower office multiple times a week. Sater, according to a later court deposition, said that his business conversations with Trump in that office were wide-ranging and frequent — “on a constant basis."


strange, that's not what Mr. Trump said...

	...Sater's dealings in Phoenix later landed him in court with a local developer who had invested in the Phoenix project, Ernest Mennes. Mennes said in a lawsuit that when he threatened to reveal Sater's criminal record, Sater told him that he would have a cousin "electrically shock Mr. Mennes’ testicles, cut off Mr. Mennes’ legs, and leave Mr. Mennes dead in the trunk of his car."


swell guy

	...Trump, Sater and Arif were all photographed together at a splashy launch party for the Trump Soho in 2007. Trump also pitched the Trump Soho on an episode of "The Apprentice," promising that "this brilliant, $370 million work of art will be an awe-inspiring masterpiece."


but Trump never met him


	...Kriss said in an interview that an Icelandic competitor of the FL Group also contacted him to invest in Bayrock. When he took that offer to Sater and Arif they told him, he says, that the money behind Icelandic banks “was mostly Russian” — and that they had to take FL’s funds for deals they were doing with Trump because the investment firm was “closer to Putin."

	“I thought it was a lie or a joke when they said Putin,” Kriss recalls. “I didn’t know how to make sense of it at all.”


so Trump taking dirty money from Putin then?

why would they say it? maybe to make it easier to blackmail him.


	..."Have you previously associated with people you knew were members of organized crime?" one of my lawyers asked.

	"No, I haven't," Trump responded. "And it's hard to overly blame Bayrock. Things like that can happen. But I want to see what action Bayrock takes before I make a decision." (In fact, Trump had partnered in the past in Atlantic City's real-estate business with men he knew were mobbed up.)


Trump in with the mafia


------


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2017/03/28/trump-business-past-ties-russian-mobsters-organized-crime/98321252/
	To expand his real estate developments over the years, Donald Trump, his company and partners repeatedly turned to wealthy Russians and oligarchs from former Soviet republics — several allegedly connected to organized crime, according to a USA TODAY review of court cases, government and legal documents and an interview with a former federal prosecutor.

	...Trump's Russian connections are of heightened interest because of an FBI investigation into possible collusion between Trump's presidential campaign and Russian operatives to interfere in last fall's election. What’s more, Trump and his companies have had business dealings with Russians that go back decades, raising questions about whether his policies would be influenced by business considerations.

	Trump told reporters in February: "I have no dealings with Russia. I have no deals that could happen in Russia, because we’ve stayed away. And I have no loans with Russia. I have no loans with Russia at all."

	Yet in 2013, after Trump addressed potential investors in Moscow, he bragged to Real Estate Weekly about his access to Russia's rich and powerful. “I have a great relationship with many Russians, and almost all of the oligarchs were in the room,” Trump said, referring to Russians who made fortunes when former Soviet state enterprises were sold to private investors.


as it turns out, Mr. Trump *does* have dealings with Russia!

	...Dealings with Russian oligarchs concern law enforcement because many of those super-wealthy people are generally suspected of corrupt practices as a result of interconnected relationships among Russia's business elite, government security services and criminal gangs, according to former U.S. prosecutor Ken McCallion, as well as Steven Hall, a former CIA chief of Russian operations.

	“Anybody who is an oligarch or is in any position of power in Russia got it because (President) Vladimir Putin or somebody in power saw some reason to give that person that job,” Hall said in an interview. “All the organized crime figures I’ve ever heard of (in Russia) all have deep connections and are tied in with people in government.”

	...However, the deals, and the large number of Russians who have bought condos in Trump buildings, raise questions about the secrecy he has maintained around his real estate empire. Trump is the first president in 40 years to refuse to turn over his tax returns, which could shed light on his business dealings.


I see


	One source of financing recruited by Bayrock for the SoHo project was Alexander Mashkevich, according to a deposition by former Bayrock partner Kriss in a federal lawsuit. A Bayrock investment pamphlet lists Mashkevich as a source of financing for the Bayrock Group.  Mashkevich, a Kazakhstan mining billionaire, was accused in Belgium in 2011 in a $55 million money-laundering scheme. Mashkevich and two partners paid a fine and admitted no wrongdoing.

	Federal indictments in New York, California and Illinois allege that people who bought Trump condos include felons and others accused of laundering money for Russian, Ukrainian or central Asian criminal organizations.

	One indictment describes Anatoly Golubchik and Michael Sall, who own condos in Trump International Beach Resort in Sunny Isles Beach, Fla., and Vadim Trincher, who owns a unit in Trump Tower in Manhattan, as members of a Russian-American organized crime group that ran an illegal gambling and money-laundering operation.


So how would the money laundering scheme work? purchase of Trump properties involved?


oligarchs and mobsters tend to buy his properties


http://money.howstuffworks.com/money-laundering2.htm
	Investing in legitimate businesses Launderers sometimes place dirty money in otherwise legitimate businesses to clean it. They may use large businesses like brokerage firms or casinos that deal in so much money it's easy for the dirty stuff to blend in, or they may use small, cash-intensive businesses like bars, car washes, strip clubs or check-cashing stores. These businesses may be "front companies" that actually do provide a good or service but whose real purpose is to clean the launderer's money.


Trump had a lot of failed casinos, didn't he?

	This method typically works in one of two ways: The launderer can combine his dirty money with the company's clean revenues -- in this case, the company reports higher revenues from its legitimate business than it's really earning; or the launderer can simply hide his dirty money in the company's legitimate bank accounts in the hopes that authorities won't compare the bank balance to the company's financial statements.


but how does this money end up going to KGB agents (if that's what Trump was doing?)


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2017/03/28/trump-business-past-ties-russian-mobsters-organized-crime/98321252/
	Money laundering was an issue for Trump's Taj Mahal Casino in Atlantic City, which was fined $10 million in 2015 for failing to report suspicious transactions. Federal rules are designed to protect the U.S. financial system from being used as a safe haven for dirty money and transnational crimes, Jennifer Shasky Calvery, then-director of the U.S. Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCen), said at the time. It was the largest penalty the agency ever levied against a casino since reporting requirements began in 2003, according to The Wall Street Journal.

	"The Trump Organization admitted that it failed to implement and maintain an effective (anti-money laundering) program; failed to report suspicious transactions; failed to properly file required currency transaction reports; and failed to keep appropriate records as required by (the Bank Secrecy Act)," FinCen said in a statement.


what if Trump funded 9/11

and that's why they released the 28 pages

Trump funded 9/11 and didn't know it

could you imagine? but anyway...


	In Los Angeles, the federal lawsuit filed in 2014 by lawyers for the Kazakh city of Almaty accuses former mayor Viktor Khrapunov of owning three Trump SoHo units through shell companies used to hide hundreds of millions of dollars allegedly looted by selling state-owned assets. Kazakhstan is a former Soviet republic.

	The Trump SoHo project "was largely financed by illegally obtained cash from Russia and Eastern European sources, including money provided by known international financial criminals and organized crime racketeers," former prosecutor McCallion wrote on his blog in October. McCallion was an assistant U.S. attorney in New York from the mid-1970s to the mid-1980s under presidents Carter and Reagan.


	...McCallion, as a private lawyer, also represented former Ukrainian prime minister Yulia Tymoshenko in a 2011 lawsuit alleging that Paul Manafort, Trump's former campaign manager, engaged in a racketeering and money-laundering scheme to hide $3.5 billion in stolen funds, much of it by buying U.S. real estate.


hmmm


	In an interview with USA TODAY, McCallion said he spent years looking into the Trump Organization, the businesses and individuals that dealt with it, and the possibility that Trump's real estate empire may depend on hundreds of millions of dollars from Russians.

	“The FBI is always concerned if public officials can be blackmailed,” McCallion said. “It’s Russian-laundered money from people who operate under the good graces of President Putin. If these people pull the plug on the Trump Organization, it would go down pretty quickly.”


wow

	...“If you steal money in a place like Russia, you have a problem,” Harding said. “You need to convert it to rubles and dollars and put it somewhere someone can’t steal it from you. One place to do that is buy real estate in New York, Miami or London.”


so how does it work, does Trump org just take dirty money to buy Condos?

	Peter Kiritchenko

	Kiritchenko, a Ukrainian businessman who owned two condominiums with his daughter at Trump International Beach Resort in Sunny Isles Beach, Fla., was named in a money-laundering scheme involving former Ukraine prime minister Pavlo Lazarenko.

	According to federal prosecutors in San Francisco in 2009, Kiritchenko helped Lazarenko launder millions of dollars obtained through extortion by purchasing luxury real estate in the United States and other countries. Kiritchenko was convicted of one count of receiving stolen property in California after he testified against the former prime minister. Lazarenko was sentenced to eight years in federal prison and fined $9 million after he was convicted on multiple counts of money laundering.


so basically it really looks like Trump is helping with that kind of luxury real estate money laundering scheme


so basically a lot of Russia mobsters who do money laundering own Trump hotels, and Trump hangs out with Russian mobsters


------

http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/22/politics/trump-taj-mahal/index.html
	Trump's Taj Mahal casino broke anti-money laundering rules in the 1990s

	It was the preferred spot for Russian mobsters to gamble

	...The Trump Taj Mahal casino broke anti-money laundering rules 106 times in its first year and a half of operation in the early 1990s, according to the IRS in a 1998 settlement agreement.

	It's a bit of forgotten history that's buried in federal records held by an investigative unit of the Treasury Department, records that congressional committees investigating Trump's ties to Russia have obtained access to, CNN has learned.

	The casino repeatedly failed to properly report gamblers who cashed out $10,000 or more in a single day, the government said. 


OK so this is all very complicated


but the sum is it looks like there could be something fishy in Donald Trump's tax returns


------


http://www.cnbc.com/2017/05/10/russia-probe-senate-requests-documents-from-money-laundering-watchdog-agency.html

	Russia probe: Senate requests Trump documents from agency that monitors money laundering

    The Senate Intelligence Committee has requested information about President Donald Trump and his top aides from a financial intelligence unit in the Treasury Department.
    The agency, known as FinCEN, imposed a $10 million civil penalty on Trump Taj Mahal in 2015 for multiple violations of money-laundering laws.

John W. Schoen	| Ken Dilanian	
Wednesday, 10 May 2017 | 12:29 PM ET


Interesting this happened the day of his special meeting with Lavrov


------

http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/30/politics/russians-trump-campaign-information/index.html
	Sources: Russians discussed potentially 'derogatory' information about Trump and associates during campaign

	By Pamela Brown, Jim Sciutto and Dana Bash, CNN

	Updated 5:07 PM ET, Tue May 30, 2017

	...One source described the information as financial in nature and said the discussion centered on whether the Russians had leverage over Trump's inner circle. The source said the intercepted communications suggested to US intelligence that Russians believed "they had the ability to influence the administration through the derogatory information."

	But the sources, privy to the descriptions of the communications written by US intelligence, cautioned the Russian claims to one another "could have been exaggerated or even made up" as part of a disinformation campaign that the Russians did during the election.


but of course Trump would know the truth...


------


https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2016/10/donald-trump-faces-a-barrage-of-new-allegations/506060/
	Donald Trump Faces a Barrage of New Allegations

	A spate of new stories raise questions about the Republican nominee’s ties to Russia and his tax-avoidance schemes.

    David A. Graham Oct 31, 2016 


	...Also Monday evening, Mother Jones’s David Corn reported that a former senior spy for a Western country had uncovered evidence that the Kremlin had launched an operation—approved by Putin—to turn Trump into a Russian asset. One memo,

    		based on the former intelligence officer's conversations with Russian sources, noted, “Russian regime has been cultivating, supporting and assisting TRUMP for at least 5 years. Aim, endorsed by PUTIN, has been to encourage splits and divisions in western alliance.” It maintained that Trump "and his inner circle have accepted a regular flow of intelligence from the Kremlin, including on his Democratic and other political rivals." It claimed that Russian intelligence had "compromised" Trump during his visits to Moscow and could "blackmail him." It also reported that Russian intelligence had compiled a dossier on Hillary Clinton based on "bugged conversations she had on various visits to Russia and intercepted phone calls."

	The spy said the FBI was horrified and requested more information, corresponding to a “substantial inquiry.” The FBI wouldn’t comment, though another senior government official vouched for the spy.


interesting, early mention of dossier

------

http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/week-transcript-donald-trump-vice-president-joe-biden/story?id=41020870
	 STEPHANOPOULOS: You said that...

	TRUMP: And we'll do better and yet we'll have a better relationship with Russia.

	And having a good relationship -- maybe. and having a good relationship with Russia is a good thing, not a bad thing.

	STEPHANOPOULOS: You said you have no investments in Russia.

	But do you owe any money to Russian individuals and institutions?

	TRUMP: No. Not.

	STEPHANOPOULOS: No?

	TRUMP: The primary thing I did what Russia -- I bought a house in Palm Beach at a bankruptcy. It was a bankrupt, you know, person. I bought it from the banks. I bought it for about $40 million. I sold it for $100 million to a Russian.
	
	That was probably five years ago. And that was primarily it.
	
	STEPHANOPOULOS: You partner now with...
	
	TRUMP: Now, well I sell...
	
	STEPHANOPOULOS: (INAUDIBLE) Grand...
	
	TRUMP: Will I sell -- many years ago. I don't think they're Russian. I think there were other people, but there were various partners.
	
	Will I sell condos to Russians on occasion?
	
	Probably.
	
	I mean I do that. I have a lot of condos. I do that. But I have no relationship to Russia whatsoever. 


interesting, why does he bring that up? "will I sell Condos to Russians? probably."


Does he, perhaps, know about money laundering deals involving selling Condos to Russians?

	 STEPHANOPOULOS: No debts?
	
	TRUMP: No debts. I have very little debt to anybody. I don't need debt. You know, it's very interesting, I'm so liquid, I don't need debt. And if I need debt, if I want debt, I can get it from banks in New York City very easily.
	
	STEPHANOPOULOS: You know where I'm going to take this next. Americans could be assured on that if they saw your tax returns.
	
	TRUMP: My tax returns are very simple. They're under a minor audit, a routine audit, as they have been for many years. Every year I get audited.
	
	Now, I don't know if you get audited but I have friends...
	
	STEPHANOPOULOS: I've been audited.
	
	TRUMP: -- who are very wealthy that never have been audited. I say -- you get audited. I get audited every year. I'm under a routine audited like routine. And I've been for years, every year.
	
	STEPHANOPOULOS: Is there something...
	
	(CROSSTALK)
	
	TRUMP: George, it is very simple. Yes, but they're all linked. It's called the link.
	
	It's very simple, if my audit is finished, that's great. 

	 Now, I have to tell you. I watched Mitt Romney four years ago. He waited until September to give them, just before the election. They made him look so bad, it was so unfair, I actually think he didn't lose because of the 47 percent, I think he lost because of a couple of really minor items in tax return where he did nothing wrong. So it is unfair.
	
	But I will say, when I'm finished with the audit, I'll do it.
	
	STEPHANOPOULOS: Richard Nixon released his even though his were under audit.
	
	TRUMP: I don't use Richard Nixon as necessarily the guide, OK. I mean, you know, it's an interesting person to use, but don't use it.



