
http://www.npr.org/2017/07/07/536018496/exiting-ethics-chief-walter-shaub-calls-trump-white-house-a-disappointment?utm_medium=RSS&utm_campaign=news
	Exiting Ethics Chief Walter Shaub Calls Trump White House 'A Disappointment'

 	July 7, 2017 4:55 PM ET 


	Shaub's advice for the White House: "Pick somebody who's got experience in the government ethics program, who's shown respect for the ethical norms and traditions, and is independent, and not someone who's going to be a partisan who will simply agree with everything they do."


hmmm

something going on here?


	Defenders of federal ethics standards say OGE, and the ethics laws themselves, may be at a turning point.

	"Previous administrations have sort of cared a lot about trying to do something about a violation of those conflicts of interest standards, and we have an administration now that honestly doesn't care," said Danielle Brian, executive director of the nonprofit Project on Government Oversight, or POGO.


Trump does not care about ethics

a shocker


	She said she used to assume existing laws were "good enough" in revealing whether a president had conflicts of interest, but added: "It turns out that the laws don't do that. And Shaub I think made a valiant effort in trying to at least let the public understand what it is that we actually don't know."


wait he did?



	"I can only describe my experience with the way they've run their ethics program in the White House right now as one of disappointment," he told NPR, citing especially the ethics waivers for White House staffers. "That's just no way to run an ethics program."


$200 says Trump runs the ethics program like a moron trying to be a mob boss


	"OGE held the president accountable, and I think Walt gets a lot of credit for that," said Norm Eisen, former ethics counsel in the Obama administration.

	Eisen is now among the plaintiffs in a lawsuit alleging that Trump has violated the Constitution's Emoluments Clause, a provision that bars federal officials from accepting gifts or payments from foreign officials.


does taking one in the bum from Putin count as an emolument?

"violated the emoluments clause"


------


http://www.cbsnews.com/news/walter-shaub-office-of-ethics-director-resignation-interview/
	He says that unless Mr. Trump eliminates all financial ties to his businesses, the American people can never be certain his policy decisions are based on what's best for the country.

	"Do you think the president and his family are using the office to enrich themselves?" Goldman asked Shaub.

	"I can't know what their intention is," Shaub said.


oh yeah I forgot about that

So Trump probably taking a profit out of being President, doesn't care?

and his kids are managing in "blind trust" or something

Remember reading his travel ban skipped countries he has hotels in or something


	In previous administrations, the OGE operated below the radar. Shaub changed that shortly after the election when he unleashed a series of sarcastic tweets prodding Mr. Trump to divest his assets.

	"In many ways, what I was really trying to do with that is A. communicate with the president using the medium that I saw him communicate in," Shaub said


lol


Putin blackmailing Trump for his tax returns confirmed


	Ultimately, Mr. Trump handed control of his private businesses to his sons, and noted there are no conflict of interest laws for a president. His attorney also said he couldn't sell off his assets because he'd lose money.

	"I have no sympathy for that," Shaub said. "I mean, he's in a position where he's going to have to send young men and women to die in combat potentially, or risk their lives at least. They're paying a much higher price. So, no, it's not too much to ask for somebody to incur a bit of a financial loss if they have to sell things off."


didn't he just release a report saying he's filthy rich?


but the real question is: does Walter Shuab have a copy of Donald Trump's tax returns?

------


http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/16/politics/trump-finances/index.html
	Updated 9:27 PM ET, Fri June 16, 2017

 	(CNN)President Donald Trump released a 98-page financial disclosure form Friday, detailing the broad outlines of his wealth but still leaving a number of unanswered questions about the specifics of not only Trump's income but also the details of his vast holdings.


happened same day as Walt Shuab resigned


wait no it didn't

fuck

but what does it mean?


	Trump's wealth, as documented in the report, is vast. He took in hundreds of millions of dollars in income over the past 15 months while carrying liabilities north of $300 million. (The Post estimated that Trump's assets are worth at least $1.4 billion.)


so Trump rich after all


	Trump raked in $288 million from his golf courses alone; he made at least $37 million from Mar-a-Lago, his Florida resort and a frequent weekend stomping ground for the first family.


which of these are influencing his decision making?

besides the mob payments of course
