leaked Jan 10 10:00 PM


https://www.buzzfeed.com/kenbensinger/these-reports-allege-trump-has-deep-ties-to-russia?utm_term=.xe28Eq1vkO#.xxoaDRAmE1
	The Trump administration's transition team did not immediately respond to BuzzFeed News' request for comment. However, the president-elect's attorney, Michael Cohen, told Mic that the allegations were absolutely false.

	"It's so ridiculous on so many levels," he said. "Clearly, the person who created this did so from their imagination or did so hoping that the liberal media would run with this fake story for whatever rationale they might have."


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	KING: I understand that. That was my way of getting on the record, so I appreciate that. You were talking about the significance of leaks and how important it is we stop them. And to me -- and I've been here a while -- I've never seen such a sustained period of leaks.

	Going back to December where, not the Intelligence Committee, but the Washington Post was told the conclusion of the report -- a similar one -- what it was going to be. We have situations in the New York Times where they talk of meetings, they talk about transcripts, they talk about conversations.

	There was one in particular that spoke about Trump campaign individuals meeting with Russian intelligence agents and again, Director Comey, I don't know if you can comment on this, but the White House chief of staff, said against that day, on the next day that Mr. McCabe from your office you went to him at the White House and told him that that story was BS.

	Is there any way you can comment on whether or not Mr. McCabe told that to Mr. Priebus?

	COMEY: I can't, Mr. King, but I can agree with your general premise. Leaks have always been a problem. I read over the weekend something from George Washington and Abraham Lincoln complaining about them. But I do think in the last six weeks, couple of months, there's been at least -- apparently a lot of conversation about classified matters that's ending up in the media.

	Now, a lot of it is just dead wrong, which is one of the challenges because we don't correct it, but it does strike me there's been a lot of people talking or at least reporters saying people are talking to them in ways that have struck me as unusually active.

	KING: I fully understand the media's fascination with palace intrigue, with which faction of the White House is trying to outdo the other, that's all -- to me, that's all legitimate, that goes with the game. But if you're talking about leaking classified information, if you're talking about leaking investigations, I mean -- you've stated today that there is an FBI investigation going on. So if the New York Times can be believed, I would think there would have to be somebody from the FBI who is telling them about these purported meetings, which Mr. McCabe said was BS, with the Russian intelligence agencies. Somebody who's familiar with that investigation spoke to the New York Times. And so I'll use that as an example and also, one where there's a small universe.

	I think it was on January 6, when yourself, Admiral Rogers, Director Brennan, and General Clapper went to Trump tower to meet with President Trump. The media reports are that at the end of that meeting, Director Comey, you presented president-elect Trump with a copy of the now infamous or famous dossier. And I don't know how many people were in the room, but within hours, that was leaked to the media and that gave the media the excuse or the rationale to publish almost the entire dossier.

	Do you -- does that violate any law? I mean you were at a classified briefing with the president-elect of the United States and it had to be a very, very small universe of people who knew that you handed them that dossier and it was leaked out within hours. Are you making any effort to find out who leaked it and do you believe that constitute a criminal violation?

	COMEY: I can't say, Mr. King except I can answer in general.

	KING: Yes.

	COMEY: Any unauthorized disclosure of classified conversations or documents is potentially a violation of law and a serious, serious problem. I've spent most of my career trying to figure out unauthorized disclosures and where they came from. It's very, very hard.

	Often times, it doesn't come from the people who actually know the secrets. It comes from one hop out, people who heard about it or were told about it. And that's the reason so much information that reports to be accurate classified information is actually wrong in the media. Because the people who heard about it didn't hear about it right. But, it is an enormous problem whenever you find information that is actually classified in the media.

	We don't talk about it because we don't wanna confirm it, but I do think it should be investigated aggressively and if possible, prosecuted so people take as a lesson, this is not OK. This behavior can be deterred and its deterred by locking some people up who have engaged in criminal activity.

	KING: Well, could you say it was -- obviously, Admiral Rogers was in the room, you were in the room, General Clapper was in the room and Director Brennan was in the room. Were there any other people in the room that could've leaked that out?

	I mean this isn't a report that was circulated among 20 people. This is an unmasking of names where you may have 20 people in the NSA and a hundred people in the FBI, its not putting together a report or the intelligence agency. This is four people in a room with the president-elect of the United States. And I don't know who else was in that room and that was leaked out, it seemed within minutes or hours, of you handing him that dossier and it was so confidential, if you read the media reports that you actually handed it to him separately.

	So believe me, I'm not saying it was you. I'm just saying, it's a small universe of people that would've known about that. And if it is a disclosure of classified information, if you're going to start with investigating the leaks, to me that would be one place where you could really start to narrow it down.

	COMEY: And again, Mr. King, I can't comment because I do not ever wanna confirm a classified conversation with a president or president-elect. I can tell you my general experience. It often turns out, there are more people who know about something you expected.

	At first, both because there may be more people involved in the thing than you realized, not -- not this particular, but in general. And more people have been told about it or heard about it or staff have been briefed on it. And those echoes are in my experience, what most often ends up being shared with reporters.

	KING: Well, could you tell us who else was in the room that day?

	COMEY: I'm sorry?

	KING: Could you tell us who else was in the room with you that day?

	COMEY: No, because I'm not going to confirm that there was such a conversation because then, I might accidentally confirm something that was in the newspaper.

	KING: But could you tell us who was in the room, whether or not there was a conversation?

	COMEY: No, I'm not confirming there was a conversation. In a classified setting, I might be able to share more with you, but I'm not going to confirm any conversations with either President Obama or President Trump or when President Trump was the President-elect.

	KING: Well, not the conversation or even the fact that you gave it to him, but can you -- can you tell us who was in the room for that briefing that you gave?

	COMEY: That you're saying later ended up in the newspaper?

	KING: Yes.

	COMEY: So my talking about who was in the room would be a confirmation that was in the newspaper was classified information, I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to help people who did something that -- that is unauthorized.

	KING: Yeah, but we all know that the four of you went to Trump Tower for the briefing, I mean that's not classified, is it?

	COMEY: How do we all know that, though?

	KING: OK.




http://www.npr.org/2017/06/07/531643428/comey-opening-statement-for-senate-intelligence-hearing-annotated
	I first met then-President-Elect Trump on Friday, January 6 in a conference room at Trump Tower in New York. I was there with other Intelligence Community (IC) leaders to brief him and his new national security team on the findings of an IC assessment concerning Russian efforts to interfere in the election. At the conclusion of that briefing, I remained alone with the President-Elect to brief him on some personally sensitive aspects of the information assembled during the assessment.

	The IC leadership thought it important, for a variety of reasons, to alert the incoming President to the existence of this material, even though it was salacious and unverified. Among those reasons were: (1) we knew the media was about to publicly report the material and we believed the IC should not keep knowledge of the material and its imminent release from the President-Elect; and (2) to the extent there was some effort to compromise an incoming President, we could blunt any such effort with a defensive briefing.

So Comey basically confirms it was the dossier here

	The Director of National Intelligence asked that I personally do this portion of the briefing because I was staying in my position and because the material implicated the FBI’s counter-intelligence responsibilities. We also agreed I would do it alone to minimize potential embarrassment to the President-Elect. Although we agreed it made sense for me to do the briefing, the FBI’s leadership and I were concerned that the briefing might create a situation where a new President came into office uncertain about whether the FBI was conducting a counter-intelligence investigation of his personal conduct.

	It is important to understand that FBI counter-intelligence investigations are different than the more-commonly known criminal investigative work. The Bureau’s goal in a counter-intelligence investigation is to understand the technical and human methods that hostile foreign powers are using to influence the United States or to steal our secrets. The FBI uses that understanding to disrupt those efforts. Sometimes disruption takes the form of alerting a person who is targeted for recruitment or influence by the foreign power. Sometimes it involves hardening a computer system that is being attacked. Sometimes it involves “turning” the recruited person into a double-agent, or publicly calling out the behavior with sanctions or expulsions of embassy-based intelligence officers. On occasion, criminal prosecution is used to disrupt intelligence activities.

	Because the nature of the hostile foreign nation is well known, counterintelligence investigations tend to be centered on individuals the FBI suspects to be witting or unwitting agents of that foreign power. When the FBI develops reason to believe an American has been targeted for recruitment by a foreign power or is covertly acting as an agent of the foreign power, the FBI will “open an investigation” on that American and use legal authorities to try to learn more about the nature of any relationship with the foreign power so it can be disrupted.

	In that context, prior to the Jan. 6 meeting, I discussed with the FBI’s leadership team whether I should be prepared to assure President-elect Trump that we were not investigating him personally. That was true; we did not have an open counter-intelligence case on him. We agreed I should do so if circumstances warranted. During our one-on-one meeting at Trump Tower, based on President-elect Trump’s reaction to the briefing and without him directly asking the question, I offered that assurance.



http://time.com/4810345/james-comey-testimony-real-time-transcript/
	James Comey: ...I was speaking to him and briefing him about some salacious and unverified material. It was in a context of that that he had a strong and defensive reaction about that not being true, and my reading of it was, It was important for me to assure him we were not personally investigating him, and so the context then was actually narrower, focused on what I just talked to him about but very important because it was first true and second I was very, very much about being in kind of a -- kind of a J. Edgar Hoover type situation. I didn't want him thinking I was briefing him on this, to sort of hang it over him in some way, I was briefing him on it because we had been told by the media it was about to launch, we don't want to be keeping that from him, and if there was -- he needed to know this was being said. But I was very keen not to leave him with an impression that the bureau was trying to do something to him, and so that's the context in which I said, sir, we're not personally investigating you.


	Susan Collins - Maine:
	And then on -- and that's why you volunteered the information. Then on the January 27th dinner, you told the President that he should be careful about asking you to investigate because, quote, you might create a narrative that we are investigating him personally, which we weren't. Were you limiting that statement to counterintelligence investigations or more broadly such as a criminal investigation?

	James Comey:
	The context was similar, I didn't modify the word investigation. Again, he was reacting strongly against that unverified material saying I'm tempting you to order to investigate it and I said you want to be careful about that because it might create a narrative that we're investigating you personally.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	GRAHAM: Do you agree with me that a fusion was involved in preparing the dossier against Donald Trump? That would be interfering in our election by the Russians?

	COMEY: I don't want to say.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/04/18/politics/fbi-dossier-carter-page-donald-trump-russia-investigation/index.html
	Washington (CNN)The FBI last year used a dossier of allegations of Russian ties to Donald Trump's campaign as part of the justification to win approval to secretly monitor a Trump associate, according to US officials briefed on the investigation.

	The dossier has also been cited by FBI Director James Comey in some of his briefings to members of Congress in recent weeks, as one of the sources of information the bureau has used to bolster its investigation, according to US officials briefed on the probe.

	This includes approval from the secret court that oversees the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) to monitor the communications of Carter Page, two of the officials said. Last year, Page was identified by the Trump campaign as an adviser on national security.

	Officials familiar with the process say even if the application to monitor Page included information from the dossier, it would only be after the FBI had corroborated the information through its own investigation. The officials would not say what or how much was corroborated.

https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/3259984-Trump-Intelligence-Allegations.html

	Speaking in confidence to a compatriot in late July 2016, Source E, and ethnic Russian close associate of US presidential candidate Donald Trump, admitted that there was a well-developed conspiracy of co-operation between then and Russian leadership. This was managed on the TRUMP side by the Republican candidate's campaign manager, Paul MANAFORT, who was using foreign policy advisor, Carter PAGE, and others as intermediaries. The two sides had a mutual interest in defeating Democratic presidential candidate Hillary CLINTON, whom President PUTIN apparently both hated and feared.


Why Manafort, Page? they got fired, aren't in the White House. Says Putin apparently hated and feared Clinton? Maybe apparent to some, but not if you look...

	In the wider context of TRUMP campaign/Kremlin co-operation, Source E claimed that the intelligence network being used against CLINTON comprised three elements. Firstly there were agents/facilitators within the Democratic Party structure itself; secondly Russian emigre and associated offensive cyber operators based in the US; and thirdly; state-sponsored cyber operatives working in Russia.

	...The operation therefore depended on key people in the US Russian emigre community for its success.

Used "against Clinton"? But not always... and not always Russian emigres either

pg 8

point 5: shifting to China? odd... "involved the payment of large bribes" by who? to who? (don't doubt the claim, but still)

a "separate source" with "direct knowledge" says Trump gets paid in Russian prostitutes

pg 17

	...the ethnic Russian associate of Trump assessed that the problem was that the TRUMP campaign had underestimated the strength of the negative reaction from liberals and especially the conservative elite to Russian interference. This was forcing a rethink and a likely change of tactics. The main objective in the short term was to check Democratic candidate Hillary CLINTON's successful exploitation of the PUTIN as a bogeyman/Russian interference story to tarnish TRUMP and bolster her own (patriotic) credentials.

Really, because it seems like some of them aided that...

Is this source E?


pg 27

allegation of Trump at a sex party in St Petersburg, all witnesses disappeared



------


https://apnews.com/152579d488a740b2a8d39fbe2f34506d/biden-intel-officials-told-us-trump-allegations-might-leak
	Vice President Joe Biden said Thursday that top intelligence leaders told him and President Barack Obama they felt obligated to inform them about uncorroborated allegations about President-elect Donald Trump out of concern the information would become public and catch them off-guard.

	In an interview, Biden said neither he nor Obama asked U.S. intelligence agencies to try to corroborate the unverified claims that Russia had obtained compromising sexual and financial allegations about Trump.

	“I think it’s something that obviously the agency thinks they have to track down,” Biden said. He added later, “It surprised me in that it made it to the point where the agency, the FBI thought they had to pursue it.”

	...“As a matter of fact, the president was like, ’What does this have anything to do with anything?’” Biden said. He said intelligence leaders responded by saying “Well, we feel obliged to tell you, Mr. President, because you may hear about it. We’re going to tell him,” referring to Trump.

	Biden said intelligence leaders told him and Obama that they couldn’t say whether or not the allegations were true or untrue. He said there was “hardly any discussion” about the allegations in the briefing.




------


http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/01/donald-trump-russia-report-intelligence-community



http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/06/donald-trump-nato-article-5
	by Abigail Tracy 

	Of course we believe in Article 5,” United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley said on Sunday during an interview with CNN’s State of the Union. Secretary of Defense James Mattis argued that Trump’s mere appearance before NATO leaders indicated that he was dedicated to the alliance. “He was there to show our statement that we are standing with the NATO allies 100 percent,” Mattis said at a security conference in Singapore on Saturday. National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster took his defense of Trump’s speech one step further. “I think it’s extraordinary that there would be an expectation that the president would have to say explicitly that he supports Article 5. Of course he does,” McMaster told reporters at the end of a Group of Seven summit in Sicily. “He did not make a decision not to say it. It was implicit in the speech. There was no decision to not put it in there.”

	But a new report belies McMaster’s argument and suggests that even he was blindsided by Trump’s speech. According to five sources familiar with the situation who spoke with Politico, McMaster, Mattis, and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson spent the weeks leading up to Trump’s NATO address ensuring that a line explicitly reaffirming the U.S. commitment to NATO would be included.


http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/05/intelligence-experts-donald-trump-intelligence-leaks
	by Abigail Tracy 

	While administration officials raced to deny the report, the president himself seemed to confirm the news the following morning, tweeting that he has “the absolute right” to share information. At a press conference later Tuesday, national security adviser H.R. McMaster defended the president’s disclosure as “wholly appropriate,” adding that Trump “wasn’t even aware of where this information came from, he wasn’t briefed on the source or method.”


http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/01/donald-trump-russia-report-intelligence-community
	by Abigail Tracy 

	At the same time, the fact that the nation’s top intelligence officials chose to present a summary version of the dossier to both President Obama and President-elect Trump, as CNN reports they did last week, indicates that they may have had a relatively high degree of confidence that at least some of the claims therein were credible, or at least worth investigating further. “My general take is that the intelligence community and law enforcement seem to be taking these claims seriously. That itself is highly significant. But it is not the same as these allegations being verified,” Susan Hennessey a former lawyer for the National Security Administration, told Wired. “Even if this was an intelligence community document—which it isn’t—this kind of raw intelligence is still treated with skepticism.” Former N.S.A. analyst John Schindler made a similar argument on Twitter, writing that the intelligence community “would never touch an outside, private Intel report, much less briefed it to ‘the top,’ unless key parts could be corroborated.”



https://www.lawfareblog.com/why-are-trump-allegations-hanging-around-when-they-havent-been-substantiated
	By Susan Hennessey, Benjamin Wittes

	Thursday, January 12, 2017, 5:39 PM

	On one hand, the fact that no specifics appear to have been validated should give everyone a lot of pause. If someone puts a lot of falsifiable facts on the table and large numbers of people spend large amounts of time trying to corroborate them and cannot do so, that generally tends to indicate that they are not true.

	And yet, the intelligence community briefed the President. It appears the FBI is continuing its investigation. DNI James Clapper issued a statement yesterday, reading in part:

		The IC has not made any judgment that the information in this document is reliable, and we did not rely upon it in any way for our conclusions. However, part of our obligation is to ensure that policymakers are provided with the fullest possible picture of any matters that might affect national security.

	This indicates that while the documents have not been validated, the government continues to take them seriously for some reason.

	The intelligence community simply does not concern itself with every crazy allegation against a sitting or incoming President that might be circulating or out there in the ether. 

	...this is a reminder of the integrity with which the press has conducted itself on this issue. Many journalists had possession of a bombshell document for weeks. And while many investigated the allegations, none ran with it until there was something to report—namely, the fact the President and President-elect had been briefed, which was undoubtedly news. At a time when the press is often criticized for running with vapor, it deserves credit on this point.



https://www.forbes.com/sites/paulroderickgregory/2017/01/13/the-trump-dossier-is-false-news-and-heres-why/#239ae6bd6867
	by Paul Roderick Gregory

	Jan 13, 2017

	As someone who has worked for more than a decade with the microfilm collection of Soviet documents in the Hoover Institution Archives, I can say that the dossier itself was compiled by a Russian, whose command of English is far from perfect and who follows the KGB (now FSB) practice of writing intelligence reports, in particular the practice of capitalizing all names for easy reference. 

CIA does that too...

says it must be fake since Russia couldn't predict Trump would run for President


	One of the few verifiable facts in the Orbis report is the key role played by Trump’s “personal lawyer” Michael Cohen. Cohen purportedly took over the negotiation of the Sechin deal, and, when the Kremlin got cold feet over its hacking campaign, it turned to Cohen to cover up the operation, meet with the Kremlin’s Presidential Administration, and make illicit payments to shut up and move the hackers to Bulgaria. A key meeting was held in Prague in August of 2016 with Cohen accompanied by three colleagues. The meetings took place in the offices of a Russian quasi-state organization, Rossotrudnichestvo.

	Cohen has denied any such meetings with the Kremlin Presidential administration and claims never to have visited Prague. According to the Orbis report, Cohen engaged in potential criminal activities, such as illicit payoffs to hackers and the buying of their silence. I doubt that he will let such accusations pass.



http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/01/donald-trump-intelligence-report-buzzfeed-cnn-coup-214623
	The Coup Before the Inauguration

	To hear Donald Trump tell it, BuzzFeed and CNN teamed up with a rogue intelligence community to slime him and destroy his presidency. But what other choice did they have?

	By Jack Shafer January 11, 2017

	...If you’re asking if I would have published the raw report if I had been sitting in the editor Ben Smith’s BuzzFeed cockpit, the answer is yes. No competent journalist publishes oppo research without confirming and placing it in context, so I stand with the major news organizations that did not publish during the campaign. But when such a report is flung about by people in power, as this one was, and its allegations are beginning to inform governance, more damage is done to trust in government and confidence in journalism by withholding it from public scrutiny.

	...Perhaps the leading indicator that the dossier isn’t pure invention comes from Russia itself, which has officially announced that the report is “pulp fiction” and an “absolute fabrication.” A Kremlin spokesman said, “The Kremlin has no compromising information on Trump.” Oh, come on! The Kremlin must have some compromising information on everybody in the U.S. within reach of the tendrils of power, especially folks like Trump who have traveled there. The Russians are protesting a tad too much. Hell, the Kremlin probably has compromising information on your mother. (For that reason, I never trusted Molly Shafer with state secrets.)

	...This is only the beginning. Even the president of the United States must sometimes stand naked, the poet once sang. In Trump’s case, he’s been fully pantsed before he's taken the oath.


http://www.motherjones.com/kevin-drum/2017/03/dossier-looking-more-credible-all-time/
	The Trump “Dossier” Is Looking More Credible All the Time

	Kevin Drum

	Mar. 30, 2017

		...The most explosive allegation that the dossier says originally came from Millian is the claim that Trump had hired prostitutes at the Moscow Ritz-Carlton and that the Kremlin has kept evidence of the encounter.

	Nobody knows for sure if Millian is genuinely plugged in at high levels, or if he’s just a fast-talking huckster. But put all this together and it’s easy to see why the Trump-Russia story won’t go away. The FBI believes Steele to be credible. In the cases where it’s been possible to check out the allegations in the dossier, they’ve turned out to be true. Other intelligence corroborates much of the alleged Russian activity. And Millian’s claims are genuinely explosive.


http://www.msnbc.com/rachel-maddow-show/what-happened-donald-trumps-russia-scandal
	 What happened to Donald Trump’s Russia scandal?
	02/10/17 04:15 PM
	By Steve Benen

	In the meantime, Russia is taking steps that make it seem as if some in Putin’s government believe the details in the now-infamous dossier may be true.


	------


http://www.newsweek.com/donald-trump-vladimir-putin-russia-intelligence-dossier-hacking-541626
	1. “Russian regime has been cultivating, supporting and assisting TRUMP for at least 5 years. Aim, endorsed by Putin, has been to encourage splits and divisions in the Western alliance.”

	If true, this makes the Russian regime pretty much psychic, since in 2011 there was little hint that Trump would pursue a political career that would take him much further than his campaign to convince Americans that President Barack Obama was not born in the U.S. 


are you kidding me?

	Leaving aside the allegation itself (which is later supposedly backed up by the testimonies of Sources E, F and B),


interesting

gives a bad denial of the claim

wants people to believe its true?


http://www.motherjones.com/kevin-drum/2017/03/dossier-looking-more-credible-all-time/
	The Trump “Dossier” Is Looking More Credible All the Time

	Kevin Drum

		...The most explosive allegation that the dossier says originally came from Millian is the claim that Trump had hired prostitutes at the Moscow Ritz-Carlton and that the Kremlin has kept evidence of the encounter.

	Nobody knows for sure if Millian is genuinely plugged in at high levels, or if he’s just a fast-talking huckster. But put all this together and it’s easy to see why the Trump-Russia story won’t go away. The FBI believes Steele to be credible. In the cases where it’s been possible to check out the allegations in the dossier, they’ve turned out to be true. Other intelligence corroborates much of the alleged Russian activity. And Millian’s claims are genuinely explosive.


hmm I think I know what they're doing


https://www.rferl.org/a/czech-intelligence-trump-lawyer-prague-meeting/28226228.html
	January 11, 2017 15:27 GMT 

	PRAGUE -- A Czech investigative journal quotes local intelligence officers as saying they have no evidence that a lawyer for President-elect Donald Trump traveled to the Czech capital last year, potentially dealing a blow to a claim at the center of an unverified text suggesting Russia had compromising materials on the billionaire developer.

	The lawyer, Michael Cohen, has already dismissed reports that he met in Prague with Russian agents over possible influence on the 2016 presidential election, and said he has never been to the city.

	A Czech intelligence source told the Respekt magazine that there is no record of Cohen arriving in Prague by plane, although the news weekly pointed out he could have traveled by car or train from a nearby EU country, avoiding passport control under Schengen zone travel rules.

	"If there was such a meeting, he [Cohen] didn’t arrive in the Czech Republic by plane," the source said.


http://dailycaller.com/2017/01/11/govt-source-confirms-trumps-lawyer-was-not-in-prague/
	Gov’t Source Confirms Man Who Was In Prague Was NOT Trump’s Lawyer

	Russ Read

	There was a Michael Cohen in Prague, a government source told CNN, but it wasn’t the Michael Cohen an uncorroborated report identified as President-elect Donald Trump’s legal counsel.

	The shocking report claimed that Cohen, the executive vice president of the Trump Organizations and special counsel to Trump himself, traveled to Prague to meet with Russian officials in August. It also claimed Cohen’s Ukrainian father-in-law had a dacha, or cottage, near that of Russian President Vladimir Putin. CNN’s Jake Tapper noted Wednesday that his reporting suggested a different Michael Cohen with the same birthday traveled to Prague around the same time under a foreign passport.


this stupid fucking dossier

should have killed it a long time ago...


http://www.mediaite.com/tv/report-intelligence-community-believes-it-was-a-different-michael-cohen-who-visited-prague/
	CNN’s Jake Tapper reported Wednesday morning that intelligence officials looked into allegations from an explosive unsubstantiated memo that Trump lawyer Michael Cohen visited Prague in late August to meet with Russian officials, and found that it was a different Michael Cohen who visited the city.

So saying they did look into it "verify" part of it?


https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/3259984-Trump-Intelligence-Allegations.html

	The Kremlin insider went on to identify leading Duma ?gure, Konstantin KOSACHEV (Head of the Foreign Relations Committee) as an important figure in the TRUMP campaign-Kremlin liaison operation. KOSACHEV, also "plausibly deniable? being part of the Russian legislature rather than executive, had facilitated the contact in Prague and by implication, may have attended the meeting/ 5 with COHEN there in August.


	Speaking to a compatriot and friend on 19 October 2016, a Kremlin insider provided further details of reported clandestine meeting/ 5 between Republican presidential candidate, Donald lawyer Michael COHEN and Kremlin representatives in August 2016. Although the communication between them had to be for security reasons, the Kremlin insider clearly indicated to his/ her friend that the reported contact/ 3 took place in Prague, Czech


https://archive.org/stream/TrumpIntelligenceAllegations_201701/Trump-Intelligence-Allegations_djvu.txt
	RUSSIA/US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION: FURTHER DETAILS OF TRUMP LAWYER 
	COHEN'S SECRET LIAISON WITH THE KREMLIN 

	Summary 

	- Kremlin insider reports TRUMP lawyer COHEN's secret meeting/ s with Kremlin officials in August 2016 was /were held in Prague 

	- Russian parastatal organisation Rossotrudnichestvo used as cover for this liaison and premises 
in Czech capital may have been used for the meeting/ s 

	- Pro-PUTIN leading Duma figure, KOSACHEV, reportedly involved as "plausibly deniable" 
facilitator and may have participated in the August meeting/ s with COHEN 

	Detail 

	1. Speaking to a compatriot and friend on 19 October 2016, a Kremlin insider provided further details of reported clandestine meeting/ s between Republican presidential candidate, Donald TRUMP'S lawyer Michael COHEN and Kremlin representatives in August 2016. Although the communication between them had to be cryptic for security reasons, the Kremlin insider clearly indicated to his/her friend that the reported contact /s took place in Prague, Czech Republic. 

	2. Continuing on this theme, the Kremlin insider highlighted the importance of the Russian parastatal organisation, Rossotrudnichestvo, in this contact between TRUMP campaign representative /s and Kremlin officials. Rossotrudnichestvo was being used as cover for this relationship and its office in Prague may well have been used to host the COHEN / Russian Presidential Administration (PA) meeting /s. It was considered a "plausibly deniable" vehicle for this, whilst remaining entirely under Kremlin control. 

	3. The Kremlin insider went on to identify leading pro-PUTIN Duma figure, Konstantin KOSACHEV (Head of the Foreign Relations Committee) as an important figure in the TRUMP campaign-Kremlin liaison operation. KOSACHEV, also "plausibly deniable" being part of the Russian legislature rather than executive, had facilitated the contact in Prague and by implication, may have attended the meeting/ s with COHEN there in August. 


	...RUSSIA/US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION: THE IMPORTANT ROLE OF TRUMP LAWYER, COHEN IN CAMPAIGN'S SECRET LIAISON WITH THE KREMLIN 

	Summary 

	- Kremlin insider outlines important role played by TRUMP's lawyer COHEN in secret liaison with Russian leadership 

	- COHEN engaged with Russians in trying to cover up scandal of MANAFORT and exposure of PAGE and meets Kremlin officials secretly in the EU in August in pursuit of this goal 



Dossier points to Manafort and Cohen as the most important intermediaries between Trump and Russia

says Cohen "took over" after Manafort

Cohen seems like an agent of theirs?

Or is just Trump's lawyer--a good cover I guess

latter report says the meeting happened in an "EU country"


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/19/us/politics/donald-trump-ukraine-russia.html?_r=0

Here's another back-channel supposedly, involving Cohen


what's up with Prauge? Chzeck intel?



https://archive.org/stream/TrumpIntelligenceAllegations_201701/Trump-Intelligence-Allegations_djvu.txt
	Speaking to a compatriot and friend on 19 October 2016, a Kremlin insider provided further details of reported clandestine meeting/ s between Republican presidential candidate, Donald TRUMP'S lawyer Michael COHEN and Kremlin representatives in August 2016. Although the communication between them had to be cryptic for security reasons, the Kremlin insider clearly indicated to his/her friend that the reported contact /s took place in Prague, Czech Republic.

	...Rossotrudnichestvo was being used as cover for this relationship and its office in Prague may well have been used to host the COHEN / Russian Presidential Administration (PA) meeting /s. It was considered a "plausibly deniable" vehicle for this, whilst remaining entirely under Kremlin control. 

	...KOSACHEV, also "plausibly deniable" being part of the Russian legislature rather than executive, had facilitated the contact in Prague and by implication, may have attended the meeting/ s with COHEN there in August.

	...US/RUSSIA: FURTHER DETAILS OF SECRET DIALOGUE BETWEEN TRUMP CAMPAIGN TEAM, KREMLIN AND ASSOCIATED HACKERS IN PRAGUE 

	- TRUMP’s representative COHEN accompanied to Prague in August/September 2016 by 3 colleagues for secret discussions with Kremlin representatives and associated operators/hackers 

	1. We reported previously (2016/135 and /136) on secret meeting/s held in Prague, Czech Republic in August 2016 between then Republican presidential candidate Donald TRUMP's representative, Michael COHEN and his interlocutors from the Kremlin working under cover of Russian 'NGO' Rossotrudnichestvo. 

	...COHEN had been accompanied to Prague by 3 colleagues and the timing of the visit was either in the last week of August or the first week of September. One of their main Russian interlocutors was Oleg SOLODUKHIN operating under Rossotrudnichestvo cover. According the agenda comprised questions on how deniable cash payments were to be made to hackers who had worked in Europe under Kremlin direction against the CLINTON campaign and various contingencies for covering up these operations and Moscow's secret liaison with the TRUMP team more generally. 

	In Prague, COHEN agreed contingency plans for various scenarios to protect the operation

	...We reported earlier that the involvement of political operatives Paul MANAFORT and Carter PAGE in the secret TRUMP- Kremlin liaison had been exposed in the media in the run-up to Prague and that damage limitation of these also was discussed by COHEN with the Kremlin representatives


why would they do this?


https://www.buzzfeed.com/anthonycormier/what-you-need-to-know-about-the-secret-trump-dossier?utm_term=.vak4z6jMlk#.aaqW6GQRxy
	One of the key players, Trump Organization attorney Michael Cohen, denied any involvement with Russian officials. The dossier claims Cohen traveled to Prague and secretly met with Russian officials in August. Cohen has since said he never visited Prague, and told The Atlantic that the dossier is “totally fake, totally inaccurate.” The Washingtonian reported that officials at the University of Southern California confirmed that Cohen visited the Los Angeles campus on Aug. 23–29 — though the dossier does not specify the day on which Cohen is alleged to have visited Prague. CNN’s Jake Tapper reported that it was a different Michael Cohen who visited Prague. Meanwhile, the metadata on Cohen’s Twitter account indicates that he was in the U.S. for the majority of August. The longest period where his tweets are dark are two consecutive days, Aug. 15 and 16.

twitter metadata is interesting, although obviously could be faked. If meeting happened Aug 15 and 16, Cohen would have needed to fly to another country, take train to meeting, train back, fly back--not likely


-----


https://www.rferl.org/a/czech-intelligence-trump-lawyer-prague-meeting/28226228.html
	PRAGUE -- A Czech investigative journal quotes local intelligence officers as saying they have no evidence that a lawyer for President-elect Donald Trump traveled to the Czech capital last year, potentially dealing a blow to a claim at the center of an unverified text suggesting Russia had compromising materials on the billionaire developer.

	...In his tweet, Cohen stated that "between August 23–29 I was in Los Angeles."

	The Czech Counterintelligence Agency (BIS) has declined to comment publicly on the matter, according to Respekt.

	"We don’t plan on commenting on this whatsoever," BIS spokesman Jan Subrt said.


Cohen would risk a lot to lie, actually, and if this ended up in court and he was wrong he'd be in a tough spot, I think? although he's not saying this under oath



https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=cs&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.respekt.cz%2Fpolitika%2Ftrumpuv-pravnik-se-mel-v-praze-sejit-se-zastupcem-kremlu-maji-rusove-na-noveho-prezidenta-kompro&edit-text=
	The police, however, no one else knew about the meeting and Michael Cohen certainly did not pass the passport control in the Czech Republic. "If the meeting happened, it did not fly to the Czech Republic," said the editorial staff at the end of last year's highly trusted source from the security environment.

	Of course, it is possible to arrive in the Czech Republic outside of airport control. Cohen could theoretically land in one of the surrounding countries, rent a car or get to Prague by train, and no one had to check on the border. However, other sources that the editorial staff have approached claim that nobody has monitored the meeting in question, and there is no evidence of it.


So these guys really want you to believe the allegations

is this the only source?


then why do they come out with "it was a different Cohen" later?

with Jake Tapper reporting it


https://twitter.com/jaketapper/status/819187673961287681?lang=en
	6:22 AM - 11 Jan 2017

	In this uncorroborated report it talks about Micheal Cohen Trump's official corporate lawyer making a trip to the Czech Republic. My reporting suggests that people did try to run that down and they concluded that it was a different Micheal Cohen. It was a Micheal Cohen with a passport from another country; the same birth year, different birth date. So for Micheal Cohen to dispute that he was in the Czech Republic completely confirms and comports with our reporting, and its one of the reasons why the intelligence chiefs did not get specific with these allegations, and that's why I hope at the press conference today people are more general and don't get into the specifics because a lot of that stuff just has not been proven.


Is tapper the only one?


http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4109252/Trump-s-lawyer-Michael-Cohen-tweets-picture-cover-passport-says-s-NEVER-Prague-witnesses-say-saw-California-day-new-dossier-claims-meeting-Kremlin-officials-Czech-Republic.html

Daily mail on point for this one? or mixing truth with lies?


https://www.washingtonian.com/2017/01/10/michael-cohen-allegations-prague-meetings-absurd/
	Cohen says that he was only in New York for the month of August, save for a trip to Los Angeles with his son from August 23-29. Two USC baseball sources confirm that Cohen and his son were in fact on campus visiting the baseball program on the 29th.

So Cohen traveled in August 2016

What's so special about 29th?

no idea


https://patribotics.blog/2017/02/26/planespotting-michael-cohens-amazing-journey-louise-mensch/
	Inanely, CNN claimed that they had it “confirmed” that Michael Cohen was not in Prague, Czech Republic, when the dossier said he was.

	They based this on the fact that, as they claimed, “a different Michael Cohen” had been in Prague around that time, according to a passport stamp. This has nothing to do with the matter one way or the other, and a little thought by CNN would have borne that out. The dossier alleged that Cohen went to Prague and another EU country; that was rated as low confidence as to both location and to exact timing. August, at one point; late August or early September at another point. Furthermore, Steele did not, contrary to CNN’s implication, present location or timing as a fact. It was secondhand; he reported as fact that Kremlin insiders said this, and Steele rated the exact location and timing as low confidence.

not seeing it

Seems like she's trying to prove he was somehow in Prague?


Don't see tapper and the Czech intelligence statement reported on much


------


https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=cs&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.ceskatelevize.cz%2Fct24%2Fdomaci%2F1970461-archivy-stb-trump-se-chtel-stat-prezidentem-v-roce-1996&edit-text=

	StB monitoring Ivana Trump before she married Trump



https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2016/dec/15/czechoslovakia-spied-on-donald-trump-ivana-files
	Thursday 15 December 2016 12.00 EST

	Another spy reported in 1977 that Trump’s businesses were “absolutely safe” because they received commissions from the state. The informant added: “Another advantage is the personal relationship [he has] with the American president [presumably Jimmy Carter] and the fact that he is completely tax-exempt for the next 30 years.” 


So what did the StB want to recruit Trump?

Something off about this article? not exactly how I remember


http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/ct-trump-1996-presidential-race-20170112-story.html
	Karel Janicek
	Jan 12 2017


Why reporting on this now? day after Czech police say Cohen not in Prauge

Tapper reported Cohen not in Prauge the 10th? early morning 11th?

then the reports by Chezch police come out

oh Czech is in NATO lol

could still be controlled by Russians, obviously

just look at the U.S.

The Czech report is a LOT more interesting than the dossier, and seems to have more credibility


yet the report is barely covered, while the dossier is

then the fucking FBI director briefs the President on it, magnifying the leak

(and VP is like wtf?)

then testifies on it


wtf happened to the Bild report


reported in fake news:

http://yournewswire.com/police-trump-hasnt-paid-tax-four-decades/

reported "Police: Trump Hasn't Paid Tax For Four Decades"

http://www.newsmax.com/Politics/president-1996-Czech-secret-service/2016/12/27/id/765795/
	Report: Trump Considered Running for President in '96

seriously?


was the report not leaked? I remember reading part of it


http://www.businessinsider.com/czech-secret-agents-spied-on-donald-trump-he-is-tax-exempt-for-30-years-2016-12

so this guy from BILD


------

http://www.businessinsider.com/czech-secret-agents-spied-on-donald-trump-he-is-tax-exempt-for-30-years-2016-12

	The dossier talks about a prenuptial contract that says he wants at least three children. If their marriage were to break down, Trump expects a compensation of one million dollars for Ivana.

from who?

	The spy writes that Trump’s company is absolutely safe, economically speaking, since it receives commissions from the state. One other juicy detail: “Another advantage is the personal relationship with the American President and the fact that he is completely tax-exempt for the next 30 years.”


http://www.bild.de/news/ausland/donald-trump/czech-stasi-spied-on-the-trumps-49326256.bild.html




https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2016/dec/15/czechoslovakia-spied-on-donald-trump-ivana-files
	The secret service of communist-era Czechoslovakia spied extensively on Donald Trump, it has emerged, with one informant alleging in 1977 that the future US president-elect “is completely tax-exempt for the next 30 years”.

	...Uncovered by Czech television and the German tabloid Bild, the dossiers include one that concentrates solely on the pre-nuptial agreement made between the Trumps. In the case of a marriage breakdown, he agreed to pay her $1m, according to the StB file.

lol the BILD one makes it sound like Trump expected himself to be paid

	Another spy reported in 1977 that Trump’s businesses were “absolutely safe” because they received commissions from the state. The informant added: “Another advantage is the personal relationship [he has] with the American president [presumably Jimmy Carter] and the fact that he is completely tax-exempt for the next 30 years.”

	During this year’s election campaign, the New York Times obtained tax records that the paper said showed Trump could have used a $916m loss reported on his 1995 tax return to avoid paying income tax for up to 18 years. Asked about the story during one of the presidential debates, Trump acknowledged that this was accurate. 

	...In 1988 a further informant working under the cover name “Milos” reported that Trump was being put under considerable pressure to run for the US presidency. The Czech authorities should be made aware, he said, that Ivana was under pressure herself to not put a step wrong during visits to Czechoslovakia, or else she risked putting her husband’s potential candidacy in jeopardy.

	“Any false step of hers will have incalculable consequences for the position of her husband who intends to run for president in 1996,” Milos wrote. He added that Trump was convinced he could win the presidency.



https://apnews.com/38bd4abbb6d54133ac865c45a74acb43/secret-police-file-trump-sure-presidential-win-1996
	A year before the 1989 collapse of communism in many parts of Europe, details about Ivana Trump’s 1988 visit back to her homeland were recorded in a classified police report. The Oct. 22, 1988 report claimed that Trump refused to run for president in 1988 — despite alleged pressure to do so — because he felt, at 42, he was too young. But the secret report said he intended to run in the 1996 U.S. presidential race as an independent, when he would be 50.

	“Even though it looks like a utopia, D. TRUMP is confident he will succeed,” the police report said, based on information from an unspecified source who talked to Ivana Trump’s father, Milos Zelnicek, about her visit.

	It was unclear where the alleged “pressure” was coming from.

	The report is interesting because, in the United States, there was little public knowledge that Trump would consider a presidential run until a 1988 interview on “The Oprah Winfrey Show.”

	“I would never want to rule it out totally,” he said then.

	“I think I’d win,” he added. “I wouldn’t go in to lose.”


	...Svoboda said there’s no indication of a secret police file on Donald Trump. He didn’t travel to Czechoslovakia under communism, unlike his children, who used to spend summer vacations there.

Ivanka recruited?

Their mother could have recruited them as well


	The 1988 secret police report in particular suggested that Ivana Trump was nervous, “which is not common for her” after her father picked her up at Prague’s international airport after traveling in from Paris, where she visited a fashion house. Trump did not join her on this trip.

	Only after she and her father arrived in her hometown did Ivana Trump reveal that the U.S. ambassador to Prague at the time, Julian Martin Niemczyk, twice invited her to visit the embassy, which she declined to accept, according to a police source that met with her father on Oct. 11, 1988. Ivana Trump allegedly said she believed U.S. embassy staffers were following her. The fact that she was supposed to meet with a Czechoslovak security official during the trip added to her nervousness, the police file stated.

	She didn’t give any details about that meeting, the report said. But it added that she said “as a wife of D. TRUMP she receives constant attention because he is pressured to run for the office of U.S. president ... and any mistake she would make could have immense consequences for him.”

sounds like an agent of theirs?

	Born in 1946, Trump planned to make history in 1996 as an independent candidate despite the fact that both the Democrats and the Republicans were allegedly wooing him to join them, the report said. A note at the end suggested that Ivana Trump’s trips home could be possibly used to reveal agents among the U.S. embassy’s staffers.

	“The StB thought there was a chance that the U.S. intelligence agencies could use (Ivana Trump). And also they wanted to use Trump to gather information on U.S. high society,” Svoboda said.


don't get that... how would U.S.intel use her?

	After Trump’s presidential win in November, Ivana Trump expressed interest in becoming the new U.S. ambassador to Prague — a possibility heartily welcomed by Czech President Milos Zeman.

Why end with this? weird article	

day after Czech intel dismissed that Cohen was in Prague

Karel Janicek is AP correspondent for the Czech Republic and Slovakia



https://apnews.com/38bd4abbb6d54133ac865c45a74acb43/secret-police-file-trump-sure-presidential-win-1996
	“The State Security was constantly watching (Czechoslovak citizens living abroad),” said Libor Svoboda, a historian from the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes in Prague. “They were coming here, so they used agents to follow them. They wanted to know who they were meeting, what they talked about. It was a sort of paranoia. They were afraid that these people could work for foreign intelligence agencies. They used the same approach toward their relatives as well.”

	...Svoboda said there’s no indication of a secret police file on Donald Trump. He didn’t travel to Czechoslovakia under communism, unlike his children, who used to spend summer vacations there.

	...“The StB thought there was a chance that the U.S. intelligence agencies could use (Ivana Trump). And also they wanted to use Trump to gather information on U.S. high society,” Svoboda said.


So Svoboda sounds like he's full of shit, trying to deny it

article implies Czech even today are up to no good, at least this historian and maybe President Zeman 


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-czech-diplomacy-idUSKBN13B281
	Czech President Milos Zeman has thrown his support behind a bid by Ivana Trump, the ex-wife of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump, to become the next ambassador to the country of her birth.

	"They could not send a better U.S. ambassador to Prague," Zeman told her in a telephone call on Wednesday, the president's office said in a statement.

	Ivana Trump told the New York Post last week she would suggest to her ex-husband that she become ambassador to the Czech Republic.

	The 67-year-old socialite, born in Zlin in what was then Czechoslovakia, told the paper the country was "where I'm from and my language and everybody knows me".

	Her suggestion, reported by Czech media over the weekend, has been welcomed by other politicians but most enthusiastically by the president's office, whose spokesman said on Twitter it was a great choice.

	It was another sign of a sharp pro-American U-turn by the Czech presidential administration.

	Zeman was one of the few European politicians who vocally backed Trump in his campaign for the U.S. presidency.

	After the real estate billionaire won the election in a surprise victory a week ago, Zeman held a rare press briefing in which said he was "very happy" with Trump's victory and that the two shared opinions on immigration and terrorism.

so Zeman sounds like a Schmuck

	Like Trump, the outspoken Czech president has often railed against "elites" critical of his leadership and has warm views towards Russian leader Vladimir Putin. Unlike Trump, Zeman is very keen on deepening ties with China.

	Despite his country's NATO membership, Zeman has often repeated the Russian line on the conflict in Ukraine and was not invited to the White House under President Barack Obama. 

article trying to say he's another stooge


the AP article was trying to make it sound like Czech is dirty


what of the police report about Cohen?

and what Tapper said?


who leaked the report to BILD?

ok it was available in archives


https://apnews.com/38bd4abbb6d54133ac865c45a74acb43/secret-police-file-trump-sure-presidential-win-1996
	The Associated Press visited the archive in Prague and obtained copies of all available documents about Ivana Trump. Some of the content has also been reported by Czech media and Germany’s Bild newspaper.


http://www.bild.de/news/ausland/donald-trump/czech-stasi-spied-on-the-trumps-49326256.bild.html
	The future President of the US and his first wife were observed by the Czech Stasi in the 1970s and 80s. This is proven by documents from the security services’ archives in Prague that were presented at BILD’s request. Czech TV has also already reported on this case.

So they let them view the docs at security archives



https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=cs&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.respekt.cz%2Fpolitika%2Ftrumpuv-pravnik-se-mel-v-praze-sejit-se-zastupcem-kremlu-maji-rusove-na-noveho-prezidenta-kompro&edit-text=
	US intelligence agency CNN announced at night that Russian intelligence services have compromising materials for a new president, Donald Trump, and are likely to be blacklisted. The billionaire fought against the information on Wednesday night.

	The fact that the Kremlin has compromising materials has been known by Trump himself, according to US intelligence, since August. His lawyer, Michael Cohen, was supposed to meet at the end of August in Prague at the offices of the Russian Cultural Center with Kremlin representative Oleg Soloduchin; According to some sources, there should be more Americans at the meeting. 


	...Some sources on the US side are skeptical about the alleged hold of compromodaterials on Trump. Former Director of the CIA, and last week, Trump's adviser James Woolsey refused to accept such a version. "If someone did not break the law, there is not much to talk about," HN Woolsey said in a conversation on whether Russia could compromise Trump - for example, through business ties to people linked to organized crime, which is speculated.



------


https://finance.yahoo.com/news/former-cia-officers-trump-russia-220937770.html
	The CIA and the FBI would not have briefed the president and the president-elect on claims that Russia has compromising information on Donald Trump if they did not take the allegations seriously, said former CIA operatives and analysts who spoke to Business Insider.

	"Most of the information that passes across the CIA's desk throughout the day ends up on the cutting-room floor because it's not deemed to be credible or relevant," said Evan McMullin, a former CIA operations officer who ran as an independent during the 2016 presidential election.

	McMullin, who served as a chief policy director for the House Republican Conference and a senior adviser on national security issues for the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, entered the presidential race as a conservative alternative to Trump and has remained harshly critical of the president-elect.

	"The agency only brings information to the president or president-elect that they believe is highly relevant and that has some level of credibility," McMullin told Business Insider in an interview on Wednesday. "So they knew the information they had was relevant."

	Classified briefing materials provided to President Barack Obama and Trump by US intelligence officials last week indicated that Russian operatives claimed to have potentially compromising personal and financial information on Trump, CNN reported Tuesday.



https://www.dni.gov/index.php/newsroom/press-releases/item/1736-dni-clapper-statement-on-conversation-with-president-elect-trump
	January 11, 2017

	This evening, I had the opportunity to speak with President-elect Donald Trump to discuss recent media reports about our briefing last Friday. I expressed my profound dismay at the leaks that have been appearing in the press, and we both agreed that they are extremely corrosive and damaging to our national security.

	We also discussed the private security company document, which was widely circulated in recent months among the media, members of Congress and Congressional staff even before the IC became aware of it. I emphasized that this document is not a U.S. Intelligence Community product and that I do not believe the leaks came from within the IC. The IC has not made any judgment that the information in this document is reliable, and we did not rely upon it in any way for our conclusions. However, part of our obligation is to ensure that policymakers are provided with the fullest possible picture of any matters that might affect national security.

	President-elect Trump again affirmed his appreciation for all the men and women serving in the Intelligence Community, and I assured him that the IC stands ready to serve his Administration and the American people.  

	James R. Clapper, Director of National Intelligence


Comey also testifies that Clapper asked him to brief Trump, and agreed Comey should do it personally to not embarass Trump


Clapper makes it sound like they didn't want the President to think the USIC leaked it.

Clapper's "denial" (if that?) of dossier not very good

I guess, what can they do? it's a mix of true and false info about a new President

public going crazy with rumors, not so great

related to a counter-intelligence investigation they don't want to our cant talk about

basically they best you can do probably is say "it's unverified"

but Comey helped make it seem more legit

Comey's excuse could be: we didn't want it to be leaked that we knew and didn't tell him

and his testimony also he implies he thought the allegations might be true


------


http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/10/politics/donald-trump-intelligence-report-russia/index.html
	By Evan Perez, Jim Sciutto, Jake Tapper and Carl Bernstein, CNN


	Classified documents presented last week to President Obama and President-elect Trump included allegations that Russian operatives claim to have compromising personal and financial information about Mr. Trump, multiple US officials with direct knowledge of the briefings tell CNN.

	The allegations were presented in a two-page synopsis that was appended to a report on Russian interference in the 2016 election. The allegations came, in part, from memos compiled by a former British intelligence operative, whose past work US intelligence officials consider credible. The FBI is investigating the credibility and accuracy of these allegations, which are based primarily on information from Russian sources, but has not confirmed many essential details in the memos about Mr. Trump.


	...CNN has reviewed a 35-page compilation of the memos, from which the two-page synopsis was drawn. The memos have since been published by Buzzfeed. The memos originated as opposition research, first commissioned by anti-Trump Republicans, and later by Democrats. At this point, CNN is not reporting on details of the memos, as it has not independently corroborated the specific allegations. But, in preparing this story, CNN has spoken to multiple high ranking intelligence, administration, congressional and law enforcement officials, as well as foreign officials and others in the private sector with direct knowledge of the memos.


	...Some of the memos were circulating as far back as last summer. What has changed since then is that US intelligence agencies have now checked out the former British intelligence operative and his vast network throughout Europe and find him and his sources to be credible enough to include some of the information in the presentations to the President and President-elect a few days ago.




https://archive.org/stream/TrumpIntelligenceAllegations_201701/Trump-Intelligence-Allegations_djvu.txt


So far TRUMP has declined various sweetener real estate business deals 
offered him in Russia in order to further the Kremlin’s cultivation of him. 


...Suggestion from source close to TRUMP and MANAFORT that Republican 
campaign team happy to have Russia as media bogeyman to mask more 
extensive corrupt business ties to China and other emerging countries 


...Commenting on the negative media publicity surrounding alleged 
Russian interference in the US election campaign in support of TRUMP, 
Source E said he understood that the Republican candidate and his team 
were relatively relaxed about this because it deflected media and the 
Democrats' attention away from TRUMP's business dealings in China and 
other emerging markets. Unlike in Russia, these were substantial and 
involved the payment of large bribes and kickbacks which, were they to 
become public, would be potentially very damaging to their campaign. 


Finally, regarding TRUMP’s claimed minimal investment profile in Russia, 
a separate source with direct knowledge said this had not been for want 
of trying. TRUMP's previous efforts had included exploring the real estate 
sector in St Petersburg as well as Moscow but in the end TRUMP had had 
to settle for the use of extensive sexual services there from local 
prostitutes rather than business success. 


reminds me of Clinton


impeachment starts with Whitewater, ends with blowjobs

sex sells?


Dossier keeps saying Trump has no business ties with Russia, but has hooker ties



So CNN says Trump was briefed that Russians have compromising personal *and* financial blackmail on him

don't ee anything about financial info in the dossier?


Comey's testimony makes it sounds like Trump is worried about the "personal" blackmail

where did info on the financial blackmail come?


well there is that StB thing...


http://www.cnn.com/2017/04/18/politics/trump-taxes-tax-returns/index.html

Clinton made the tax returns a point of her campaign, mean something?


Weird that while everything about Trump gets leaked, certain things don't, e.g.:

fact that Trump is under investigation
Trump's tax returns



http://www.computerworld.com/article/3160489/security/wikileaks-urges-hackers-to-leak-trumps-tax-returns.html
	WikiLeaks urges hackers to leak Trump's tax returns


Russia/wikileaks blackmailing Trump with his tax returns?


https://twitter.com/wikileaks/status/823212055322853382
	Trump Counselor Kellyanne Conway stated today that Trump will not release his tax returns. Send them to: https://wikileaks.org/#submit  so we can.



https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/09/us/politics/taxes-trump-irs.html
	It wouldn’t be easy. In 1973, an I.R.S. employee leaked private information from former President Richard M. Nixon’s taxes, resulting in a scandal that compelled him to declare, “I am not a crook.” Since then, the agency has taken rigid precautions to keep its data secure. Unauthorized disclosures come with steep penalties, including a prison sentence of up to five years and a $5,000 fine.



------


http://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/trump-hiding-true-net-worth-withholds-tax-returns-article-1.2635313


	Trump may be hiding true net worth as he withholds tax returns
	BY Adam Edelman 


that's what he's hiding?


------


http://www.cnn.com/2017/04/18/politics/fbi-dossier-carter-page-donald-trump-russia-investigation/index.html
	Tue April 18, 2017

	Washington (CNN)The FBI last year used a dossier of allegations of Russian ties to Donald Trump's campaign as part of the justification to win approval to secretly monitor a Trump associate, according to US officials briefed on the investigation.

	The dossier has also been cited by FBI Director James Comey in some of his briefings to members of Congress in recent weeks, as one of the sources of information the bureau has used to bolster its investigation, according to US officials briefed on the probe.

	...The dossier first came to light when CNN reported that a summary of it had been presented to President Obama and President-elect Trump back in December by top US Intelligence officials.

	Comey's briefings to lawmakers stand in contrast to efforts in recent months by the bureau and US intelligence agencies to try to distance themselves from the dossier.

	...Comey hasn't mentioned the dossier in all his briefings to lawmakers, according to people familiar with the briefings. To some of them, he has emphasized that the FBI gathered evidence as part of its investigation to support seeking FISA court approval and to take other steps as part of the probe that began last July, according to the officials briefed of the probe.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/fbi-once-planned-to-pay-former-british-spy-who-authored-controversial-trump-dossier/2017/02/28/896ab470-facc-11e6-9845-576c69081518_story.html
	In October, anticipating that funding supplied through the original client would dry up, Steele and the FBI reached a spoken understanding: He would continue his work looking at the Kremlin’s ties to Trump and receive compensation for his efforts.

spoken agreement? eh


	But Steele’s frustration deepened when FBI Director James B. Comey, who had been silent on the Russia inquiry, announced publicly 11 days before the election that the bureau was investigating a newly discovered cache of emails Clinton had exchanged using her private server, according to people familiar with Steele’s thinking.

	Those people say Steele’s frustration with the FBI peaked after an Oct. 31 New York Times story that cited law enforcement sources drawing conclusions that he considered premature. The article said that the FBI had not yet found any “conclusive or direct link” between Trump and the Russian government and that the Russian hacking was not intended to help Trump.


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/how-a-dubious-russian-document-influenced-the-fbis-handling-of-the-clinton-probe/2017/05/24/f375c07c-3a95-11e7-9e48-c4f199710b69_story.html

	From the moment the bureau received the document from a source in early March 2016, its veracity was the subject of an internal debate at the FBI. Several people familiar with the matter said the bureau’s doubts about the document hardened in August when officials became more certain that there was nothing to substantiate the claims in the Russian document. FBI officials knew the bureau never had the underlying email with the explosive allegation, if it ever existed.

	...“It didn’t mean anything to the investigation until after [senior FBI officials] had to defend themselves,” said one person familiar with the matter. “Then they decided it was important. But it’s junk, and they already knew that.”

	An FBI spokesman declined to comment. Comey did not respond to requests for comment.

	...After the bureau first received the document, it attempted to use the source to obtain the referenced email but could not do so, these people said. The source that provided the document, they said, had previously supplied other information that the FBI was also unable to corroborate.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/26/politics/james-comey-fbi-investigation-fake-russian-intelligence/index.html
	In classified sessions with members of Congress several months ago, Comey described those emails in the Russian claim and expressed his concern that this Russian information could "drop" and that would undermine the Clinton investigation and the Justice Department in general, according to one government official.

	Still, Comey did not let on to lawmakers that there were doubts about the veracity of the intelligence, according to sources familiar with the briefings. It is unclear why Comey was not more forthcoming in a classified setting.

	...The Washington Post reported Wednesday that this Russian intelligence was unreliable. US officials now tell CNN that Comey and FBI officials actually knew early on that this intelligence was indeed false.

	In fact, acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe went to Capitol Hill Thursday to push back on the notion that the FBI was duped, according to a source familiar with a meeting McCabe had with members of the Senate intelligence committee.

	...In classified sessions with members of Congress several months ago, Comey described those emails in the Russian claim and expressed his concern that this Russian information could "drop" and that would undermine the Clinton investigation and the Justice Department in general, according to one government official.

	Still, Comey did not let on to lawmakers that there were doubts about the veracity of the intelligence, according to sources familiar with the briefings. It is unclear why Comey was not more forthcoming in a classified setting.

	Sources close to Comey tell CNN he felt that it didn't matter if the information was accurate, because his big fear was that if the Russians released the information publicly, there would be no way for law enforcement and intelligence officials to discredit it without burning intelligence sources and methods. There were other factors behind Comey's decision, sources say. 

	In at least one classified session, Comey cited that intelligence as the primary reason he took the unusual step of publicly announcing the end of the Clinton email probe.

	In that briefing, Comey did not even mention the other reason he gave in public testimony for acting independently of the Justice Department -- that Lynch was compromised because Bill Clinton boarded her plane and spoke to her during the investigation, these sources told CNN.

	Multiple US officials tell CNN that to this day Russia is trying to spread false information in the US -- through elected officials and American intelligence and law enforcement operatives -- in order to cloud and confuse ongoing investigations.




------


http://www.businessinsider.com/james-clapper-trump-dossier-2017-6

	 Clapper said Wednesday that he "felt an obligation to defend the men and women of the United States intelligence community" after Trump's outburst. So he called Trump on January 11 and "tried, naively it turned out, to appeal to his higher instincts by pointing out that the intelligence community he was about to inherit is a national treasure," he said.

	Trump, however, was interested in only one thing, Clapper said.

	"Ever transactional, he simply asked me to publicly refute the infamous dossier, which I could not and would not do," he said on Wednesday. 

what's up with that?

------

http://www.nationalreview.com/article/443816/donald-trump-dossier-intelligence-reports-question-russia-ties
	“Fake news,” Trump charged at the news conference, turning back on his critics a meme they have been using to suggest that voters were gulled into voting for him. “I think it was disgraceful, disgraceful that the intelligence agencies allowed any information that turned out to be so false and fake out.”


Interesting--Trump blames intel agencies for leak?


http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/01/13/trump-sticks-knife-into-dossier-story-wont-let-intel-community-off-hook.html
	His “failed spy” slam refers to former British spy Christopher David Steele, who reportedly helped compile the dossier. Trump turned fire on the original sources of the material after slamming the media – namely CNN and BuzzFeed, the latter of which published the dossier itself – for reporting on the claims earlier this week.

	But he also has continued to question the intelligence community’s role in the sordid allegations going public, reviving his charge Friday that they “probably” released it.


http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/01/13/trump-sticks-knife-into-dossier-story-wont-let-intel-community-off-hook.html
	One reason the nation’s intelligence chiefs took the extraordinary step of including the synopsis in the briefing documents was to make the President-elect aware that such allegations involving him are circulating among intelligence agencies, senior members of Congress and other government officials in Washington, multiple sources tell CNN.


So Comey told Trump the dossier was "widely circulated" among intel agencies, then Trump blames intel agencies for leak


------

http://www.nationalreview.com/morning-jolt/443757/trump-dossier-fact-check-memos-russian-espionage-claims

good article on how the dossier is dubious

	Classified documents presented last week to President Obama and President-elect Trump included allegations that Russian operatives claim to have compromising personal and financial information about Mr. Trump, multiple US officials with direct knowledge of the briefings tell CNN. The allegations were presented in a two-page synopsis that was appended to a report on Russian interference in the 2016 election. The allegations came, in part, from memos compiled by a former British intelligence operative, whose past work US intelligence officials consider credible. The FBI is investigating the credibility and accuracy of these allegations, which are based primarily on information from Russian sources, but has not confirmed many essential details in the memos about Mr. Trump. The classified briefings last week were presented by four of the senior-most US intelligence chiefs — Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, FBI Director James Comey, CIA Director John Brennan, and NSA Director Admiral Mike Rogers. One reason the nation’s intelligence chiefs took the extraordinary step of including the synopsis in the briefing documents was to make the President-elect aware that such allegations involving him are circulating among intelligence agencies, senior members of Congress and other government officials in Washington, multiple sources tell CNN.

right, this is supposed to be part of Comey's motive? "just so you know, this document saying you got taped doing golden showers with prostitutes is circulating all around U.S. intelligence agencies."


------

http://www.nationalreview.com/article/443792/russia-trump-intelligence-report-serves-russias-propaganda-purposes
	It is part of Russia’s strategy to disrupt U.S. politics and institutions for years to come. Deeply divided and in the grip of partisan passions, U.S. society is slipping into a quagmire of Russian disinformation in which the Putin regime will find it very easy to create reality and destroy facts. This has implications not only for U.S. security but also for the country’s psychological health.

	The recently released report that asserts that Russian president Vladimir Putin has been “cultivating assisting and supporting Trump” for years and that the Russians have compromising information (kompromat) on him is, I believe, a deliberate Russian provocation. Trump has denounced the report as “fake news” and has even cited Russian denials of the report in his defense. His opponents suggest that the report is credible and are demanding an investigation of the allegations.

	In both cases, however, the report is accepted as the product of a private investigation that may or may not have been honest rather than what I believe it to be — a carefully constructed attempt to disrupt American political life for years to come.

national review getting it right?

	The report said that Putin was motivated by “fear and hatred of Hillary Clinton.” This again reflects the thrust of Russian propaganda, which tries to reduce policy difference to a conflict of personalities. Russian spokesmen said that tensions between the U.S. and Russia under Obama existed because Putin and Obama did not like each other. In the report, attributing Russian help for Trump to hatred of Clinton was a way of making this supposed help more plausible at a time when Clinton appeared certain to become president. It also distracted attention from the real goal of Russian activities, which was to undermine American institutions.

that's a good point reducing it to who Putin "likes" and "doesn't like"

although I guess there is still some truth to that too

	It was this misinterpretation that gave the Russians’ actions a partisan cast and set Americans against each other, making it easier, ironically, for the Russians to do greater damage in the future.

basically saying what I'm saying

	The U.S. is now at a crossroads in dealing with Russian disinformation and manipulation. The country is vulnerable because, with the end of Cold War, political issues have become self- interested and parochial. Paradoxically, this has added a level of viciousness to political conflict that is out of all proportion to the importance of the issues. The result is a vulnerability that hostile foreign powers such as Russia are quick to exploit.


fuck this guy is way better at writing than I am

also he may or may no be a Russian spy

dude really likes to right about Russia

http://www.nationalreview.com/author/david-satter


http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/443752/trump-kompromat-story-its-all-disturbing
	This is ridiculous. How can “Americans make up their own minds” when they have no ability to fact-check the allegations?


lol


------

http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/05/05/comey-pressed-for-anti-trump-dossier-in-classified-russia-report-sources-say.html
	FBI Director James Comey considered an anti-Trump dossier compiled by a former British intelligence officer so important that he insisted the document be included in January's final intelligence community report on Russian meddling in the U.S. election, Fox News was told.

	Sources would not speak on the record, citing the sensitivity of the matter and its current relevance to upcoming testimony on the unmasking of American citizens as part of the FBI probe into alleged contacts between Trump campaign advisers and Moscow. 

	Asked for a response to the claims, the FBI and Office of the Director of National Intelligence said they could not comment on a classified document. 

	It was reported last month that the unverified dossier was part of the evidence the FBI used to obtain a FISA warrant for Carter Page, a peripheral figure in the Trump campaign. In an interview with Fox News, Page denied the dossier’s central allegations that he was the Trump campaign’s point person for Moscow.

fukin comey


http://www.gq.com/story/james-comey-very-bad-day
	Republicans and Democrats Agree on Something: James Comey Sucks


-----

http://www.foxnews.com/world/2017/01/12/secret-police-file-trump-sure-presidential-win-in-16.html
	Secret police file: Trump sure of presidential win _ in 1996


-----

https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/apr/28/trump-russia-intelligence-uk-government-m16-kremlin

A new secret dossier from Steele that not many people know about apparently, saying Trump paid Russian hackers


------

As for what Russia's objectives actually are, that's not always easy to know. The dossier says Russia aims to stop Clinton, sew division within the U.S. and NATO, distract from Russian intervention in Ukraine, and lift sanctions.


what are actual goals? all of these seem like things they'd want to do, but maybe not ultimate goals.

probably ultimate goal is to discredit USIC, have Comey try to take down Trump based off false or made-up Russia-related scandals. So then they can discredit what USIC says about Russia, politicize the issue, basically try to silence whoever wants to say things about their activities (as far as politicizing and discrediting a person or institution can silence them).

Guessing what they are really afraid of is they way their active measures really works, and the scope being exposed. USIC has already started exposing this, so, discredit them, politicize Russian intervention.

But don't think they want to so much "hide" their activities and ties to politics like dossier says, more like "hide in plain sight." confuse. They give a sort-of fake narrative of how Russian intervention works (e.g. its all hacking and shoddy propaganda networks). The "layer" of their propaganda apparatus that gets talked about is very easy to see, mostly shoddy.

Also probably want to tie-up abilities of USIC to counter this. Make a scandal were the USIC looks like shit, and get the public angry at them. Then drum-up support for new laws to curtail them further. IIRC something like that happened after Nixon?

------

Dossier goals:

https://archive.org/stream/TrumpIntelligenceAllegations_201701/Trump-Intelligence-Allegations_djvu.txt

	The reason for using WikiLeaks was "plausible deniability” and the 
operation had been conducted with the full knowledge and support of 
TRUMP and senior members of his campaign team. In return the TRUMP 
team had agreed to sideline Russian intervention in Ukraine as a 
campaign issue and to raise US/NATO defence commitments in the 
Baltics and Eastern Europe to deflect attention away from Ukraine, a 
priority for PUTIN who needed to cauterise the subject. 

so "raising defense commitments" is meant to sideline Ukraine? really? seems like it mostly just divides U.S. and NATO and pushes other Western countries away from the U.S.


https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/jan/12/intelligence-sources-vouch-credibility-donald-trump-russia-dossier-author
	His denials – at least some of them – were emphatic, even by the standards that Donald Trump has come to be judged by. The dossier, he said, was a confection of lies; he compared it to Nazi propaganda; it was fake news spread by sick people.

	At his press briefing on Wednesday, the president-elect dared the world’s media to scrutinise the 35 pages of claims, before throwing down a challenge – where’s the proof? Nobody had any. Case closed.

	But in the rush to trample all over the dossier and its contents, one key question remained. Why had America’s intelligence agencies felt it necessary to provide a compendium of the claims to Barack Obama and Trump himself?


------


http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/03/how-the-explosive-russian-dossier-was-compiled-christopher-steele

A lot of its claims are about Russia's intent which don't completely hold up: 


https://archive.org/stream/TrumpIntelligenceAllegations_201701/Trump-Intelligence-Allegations_djvu.txt
	...the agenda comprised questions on how deniable cash payments were to be made to hackers who had worked in Europe under Kremlin direction against the CLINTON campaign and various contingencies for covering up these operations and Moscow's secret liaison with the TRUMP team more generally. 

	...The two sides had a mutual interest in defeating Democratic presidential candidate Hillary CLINTON, whom President PUTIN apparently both hated and feared.

	...PUTIN and others in the Russian leadership were sceptical about the ex-Ukrainian president’s reassurances on this as relating to MANAFORT. They therefore still feared the scandal had legs, especially as MANAFORT had been commercially active in Ukraine right up to the time (in March 2016) when he joined TRUMP's campaign team. For them it therefore remained a point of potential political vulnerability and embarrassment. 

	...a senior member of the Russian Presidential Administration (PA) commented on the political fallout from recent western media revelations about Moscow's intervention, in favour of Donald TRUMP and against Hillary CLINTON, in the US presidential election. The PA official reported that the issue had become incredibly sensitive and that President PUTIN had issued direct orders that Kremlin and government insiders should not discuss it in public or even in private. 

	...overall objective had been to “to sweep it all under the carpet and make sure no connections could be fully established or proven" 




But the corollary of "intent is hard to prove" is "intent is easy to lie about."


https://archive.org/stream/TrumpIntelligenceAllegations_201701/Trump-Intelligence-Allegations_djvu.txt
	...Russians receiving intel from TRUMP’s team on Russian oligarchs and their families in US 

	...In terms of ‘foreign’ agents, the FSB was approaching US citizens of Russian (Jewish) origin on business trips to Russia.


------

https://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=768335
	Lunev also summarized other political influence efforts through alternative channels, beginning in the early years of the Stalin regime:

		Through my KGB and GRU contacts, I heard many stories of how Stalin and other leaders initiated many long-term efforts to undermine American society. Their main effort was to increase violence inside the United States, and their effort included paying selected Hollywood producers to produce violent and offensive films. The Soviet Union also provided financial support to the most aggressive and violent minority leaders. The Soviet Union always supported “agents of influence” who could either sway people to the Soviet point of view or cause general turmoil in the United States.



http://www.snopes.com/history/document/communistrules.asp

kindof similar? except some points seem true...



------


http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4117040/I-introduced-wife-James-Bond-Former-spy-Chris-Steele-s-friends-shadowy-007-figure-MI6-bosses-brand-idiot-appalling-lack-judgement-Trump-dirty-dossier.html

Daily mail on Steele


	The couple faced down Russian tanks after the fall of the Soviet Union and ‘highly capable’ Mr Steele went on to become head of MI6’s Russia desk – meaning he was one of the Secret Intelligence Service’s most senior spies.

	It was no wonder he was considered hot property when he quit MI6 in 2009 to set up his own spies-for-hire firm, Orbis Business Intelligence.


Somehow all the Western spies betraying West

same deal with the diretor of Russia ops in U.S.

Also says he was a socialist in youth--sleeper agent?
