

http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2016/07/05/gregg-jarrett-fbi-director-calls-clinton-careless-his-recommendations-make-no-sense.html
	Gregg Jarrett: FBI Director calls Clinton ‘careless’. His recommendations make no sense

	It makes no legal sense. I suspect attorneys across America are scratching their heads.           
	James Comey, Director of the FBI, declared Tuesday that Hillary Clinton was “extremely careless” in her handling of very sensitive and highly classified information on her unauthorized and unsecured email server while serving as Secretary of State.

	Those words, “extremely careless” mean something important in the law.  Consider the relevant federal criminal statute which reads: 

		“Whoever, being entrusted with… any document relating to the national defense… through gross negligence permits the same to be removed from its proper place of custody… shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both.”  (18 U.S.C., section 793-f) 

	The key phrase is “gross negligence”. What does it mean?  Every lawyer and judge in America knows its meaning. It is defined in standard jury instructions and just about every legal treatise that exists.

	It means extremely careless. 

	Black’s Law Dictionary is the legal bible upon which attorneys rely. Check it out. You’ll find that gross negligence is described and defined as extreme carelessness.  At least, my edition does.

	...Since Comey, by his own words, all but declared that Clinton broke a criminal law, how could he then say he would not recommend criminal prosecution? Again, it makes no sense. 

	Comey is a former U.S. Attorney. Yet, he exhibited an astonishing ignorance of the law. He laid out a case of gross negligence constituting a crime, defined it with the words “extremely careless” and then promptly proceeded to ignore the law. 


http://insider.foxnews.com/2016/07/05/giuliani-comey-made-special-exception-clintons
 	'So Discouraging': Giuliani Says Comey Made 'Special Exception for the Clintons' 


http://www.cnn.com/2016/07/05/politics/election-2016-donald-trump-hillary-clinton-fbi/index.html
	Trump: FBI decision on Clinton proves 'our system is totally rigged'

	Donald Trump on Tuesday night repeatedly hammered his message that there is a "rigged system" at work, pointing specifically to the FBI decision to not recommend criminal charges against Hillary Clinton for her use of email while serving as secretary of state.

	Trump seized on the FBI's decision as he addressed the crowd of fervent supporters in this potential battleground state, calling it the "best evidence ever that we've seen that our system is totally rigged."

	He accused Clinton, the presumptive Democratic nominee, of bribing the U.S. attorney general -- offering little to back up the dramatic accusation. And he called the FBI's decision, announced earlier Tuesday by the agency's director James Comey, a "tragedy."

	"Everybody thought based on what was being said she was guilty. She was guilty. And it turned out that we're not going to press charges. It's really amazing," Trump said as his crowd of more than 2,200, according to the theater, erupted in a chorus of boos.

	"We have a rigged system, folks," he added.


http://www.foxnews.com/transcript/2016/10/26/bill-oreilly-is-our-political-system-rigged.html
	Bill O'Reilly: Is our political system rigged? 

	...The appearance of corruption is staggering. Talking Points is not saying there is corruption. But the optics are awful and FBI Director James Comey had to know that. If you combine the McCabe stuff, we just told you about, with Comey not calling for a grand jury and basically giving Secretary Clinton every benefit of every doubt, again, you have the appearance of impropriety. So it's no surprise. Many Americans, including Mr. Trump, believe the system is rigged. Did I mention Attorney General Loretta Lynch meeting with Bill Clinton during the investigation?

	I mean, come on. Again, the vote cannot be possibly rigged two weeks from tonight. And Mr. Trump should accept whatever happens at that vote, unless there is compelling evidence of corruption. Undermining our electoral system is not a patriotic thing. But overall, if you don't think the federal political and justice system has severe problems, you are living in the Land of Oz. And that's "The Memo".


http://www.cnbc.com/2016/10/22/trump-gains-on-clinton-poll-shows-rigged-message-resonates.html
	Trump gains on Clinton, poll shows 'rigged' message resonates

	...The Reuters/Ipsos data showed only half of Republicans would accept Clinton as their president, and nearly 70 percent of them said a Clinton victory would be because of illegal voting or vote rigging.

	Trump's crowd chanted "Lock her up!" at a rally in Johnstown, Pennsylvania after he declared Clinton a "corrupt globalist," a reference to campaign documents released by WikiLeaks in which Clinton was quoted advocating free trade and open borders.

	After the chant went around the room for several seconds, Trump responded, "Don't worry, that whole thing will be looked into." 


http://www.bbc.com/news/election-us-2016-36860740
	US election: Do 'lock her up' chants mark a new low?

	Many of the speakers have focused more on the faults of Hillary Clinton than the virtues of Donald Trump.

	...Much of the criticism from the stage, from Mr Christie and others, was about Mrs Clinton's use of a private email account while she was serving as secretary of state.

	An FBI investigation said she was "extremely careless" but found her actions didn't warrant criminal prosecution. 


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/majority-disapproves-decision-charge-clinton-emails-poll/story?id=40445344
 	A majority of Americans disapprove of the FBI's recommendation not to charge Hillary Clinton with a crime over her handling of email while secretary of state, and a similar number in a new ABC News/Washington Post poll say the issue leaves them worried about how she would handle her responsibilities as president if elected. 

	...Overall, 56 percent disapprove of FBI Director James Comey's recommendation not to charge Clinton, while just 35 percent approve. Similarly, 57 percent say the incident makes them worried about how Clinton might act as president if she is elected, with most very worried about it. 


http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/290892-trump-says-second-amendment-folks-could-stop-clinton
	Trump: 'Second Amendment people' could stop Clinton

	...Trump was discussing the possibility that Clinton, the Democratic nominee, would be able to appoint liberal justices to the Supreme Court if she wins the race for the White House.

	He then said that there was nothing that could be done in that scenario, before mentioning “Second Amendment folks.”

	“Hillary wants to abolish, essentially abolish the Second Amendment,” Trump said to boos from the crowd.

	“By the way, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do folks,” he then added.

	“Though the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don't know.”


http://www.cnn.com/2016/10/26/politics/joe-walsh-donald-trump-protest-tweet/index.html
	Ex-congressman: 'If Trump loses, I'm grabbing my musket'

	...Walsh, who was elected with support from the tea party movement, is now a conservative talk radio host, tweeted Wednesday: "On November 8th, I'm voting for Trump. On November 9th, if Trump loses, I'm grabbing my musket. You in?"


http://fortune.com/2016/07/15/hillary-clinton-email-scandal-poll/
	Hillary Clinton Survived Her Email Scandal, But Not Unscathed, New Poll Shows

	Hillary Clinton enters the summer damaged by perceptions that she violated the law by using a private email system while serving as secretary of state, a new Associated Press-GfK poll finds.

	More than half of Americans think the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee broke the law by using a private email account and server at the State Department and nearly 4 in 10 think she did so intentionally, according to the poll.

	..."She's innocent until proven guilty, but to me the FBI director called her guilty and then gave her a pass card," said James Thompson, a 57-year-old Republican from Colchester, Connecticut. "If that was anyone else in this world, they would have been gone. They would have been down the river. They would have been in jail."


http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/jul/5/hillary-clinton-emails-only-american-people-can-fi/
	Only the American people can fix this now

	Obama, FBI Director James Comey let Hillary off the hook

	So there you have it.  We now know the results of the FBI investigation into Hillary Clinton’s email practices while secretary of State: No charges even though the FBI director himself said she was extremely negligent with classified information, including special compartmental access information, and there is a high likelihood foreign entities accessed this data.  

	...If I had negligently taken TS SCI information out of secure environment and opened it up to possibility of theft by a foreign adversary, I can guarantee you I would have been thrown in jail for years.  
	The Obama administration simply let Hillary Clinton off the hook for criminal behavior.  They did this because they are criminal themselves, through and through.  

	Today I realized that the America I knew is no more.  It is gone. It has been stolen, corrupted by the largest organized crime syndicate ever known to man, the Democratic Party.  

	...Now we have a criminal gang openly flouting the legal system, backed by a corrupt, cheerleading media.  An elite oligarchy is in charge, that is above the law and has destroyed trust in our rule of law.  We are no better than Vladimir Putin’s Russia, where this type of thing is commonplace, where freedom and democracy are only a sham, to be trotted out for pictures.  This is no less threatening than the South seceding from the Union.  This is sedition.

	This cannot stand.  

	In the late 18th century, we fought a revolution over much worse—a tax on tea, taxation without representation.  This is no longer about partisan politics.  This is no longer about conservatism.  This is about what is right and wrong.  This is about freedom.  This is about the entire notion of America itself.   

	America is dying. 

	...If Hillary Clinton is elected president, we will no longer have a country.  We will have a totalitarian oligarchy.

	This can no longer be fixed by the system.  This can only be fixed by the American people themselves.  We fought a revolution for less.  


http://www.rawstory.com/2016/09/georgia-voter-predicts-civil-war-if-clinton-wins-patriots-are-going-to-overthrow-the-government/
	Georgia voter predicts civil war if Clinton wins: ‘Patriots are going to overthrow the government’


http://www.nbcnews.com/card/pence-revolution-rally-goer-dont-say-n664776
	 Mike Pence had to talk down a supporter at an Iowa town hall Tuesday suggesting a "revolution" if Hillary Clinton becomes president.

	The woman, who identified herself as Rhonda, told the GOP vice presidential nominee that she was worried because "our kids' futures depend on this election."

	"I will tell you just for me — and I don't want this to happen — but I will tell you for me, personally, if Hillary Clinton gets in ... I'm ready for a revolution because we can't have her in," she said in an emotional moment.

	Pence, who remains steadfast to running mate Donald Trump, interjected: "Yeah, you don't want — don't say that." 


http://www.newsmax.com/Politics/presidential-election-election-hillary-clinton-james-comey/2016/11/06/id/757336/
	Trump on FBI Probe: Proves System 'Rigged'

	Donald Trump on Sunday criticized James Comey for his announcement that the FBI had not changed its conclusion regarding her emails, telling a crowd in Michigan that it was hard to believe the agency could review "650,000 new emails in eight days."

	"Right now, she is being protected by a rigged system. It's a totally rigged system. I've been saying it for a long time," said Trump.


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...naturalnews.com...


http://www.naturalnews.com/055146_social_chaos_election_results_popular_revolt.html
	Chaos will erupt across America in less than 100 days... no matter who wins the election

	As I've publicly predicted numerous times over the last year, if Donald Trump wins, the radical extreme leftists go on a violent rampage that leads to the rest of us begging for martial law. After half a dozen cities burn with riots and looting, Trump invokes a national emergency, deploying National Guard troops across the most devastated urban areas, and the radical left finds itself in a shooting war with the government.

	If Hillary Clinton wins, all the Trump supporters who have been violently assaulted, spat upon and physically attacked by the radical left un-holster their concealed weapons and start shooting back. This quickly escalates into open warfare between lunatic leftist Hillary supporters and armed Trump "Second Amendment" people who basically figure they've got nothing left to lose anyway, so why not fight to save America?

	...Hundreds of millions of guns across America are now in the hands of people who are fed up with being stomped on, ridiculed and marginalized by a corrupt leftist regime that's destroying America

	...What the author is saying is, essentially, America is quite likely just 70 days away from the start of the next revolution... or even events that could escalate into Civil War.

	...A Hillary victory would set off an immediate popular revolt

	If Hillary wins the election, it's hard not to imagine some sort of popular revolt across America as the citizens reject the obvious criminality and corruption of not just the Clinton crime family but also a complicit mainstream media. The same media that has funneled millions of dollars into the Clinton Foundation also intentionally downplays all the Clinton scandals. The entire system is a corrupt, incestuous, rigged f--kfest that benefits the deceitful plutocrats whom the voters are sick and tired of seeing remain in power.


	...If Trump wins, the globalist banksters crash the debt bubble to unleash mass chaos

	...Once the globalists declare open warfare against the Trump administration, all bets are off and anything could unfold over the next few years. Expect things to get very nasty, very desperate and incredibly violent. Life as you know it in America is about to be disrupted in a serious way.

	By the way, I also predict that Edward Snowden, Julian Assange and Anonymous will all play key roles in these unfolding events, exposing mind-blowing government secrets that spur populations across many western nations into escalating their action against the corrupt government regimes they've foolishly allowed to rule over them. Much of the real war taking place across our globe right now is a cyber war... a "war of secrets" where the hackers and cyber activists are increasingly exposing all the corruption and criminality of governments, which maintain their power by constantly lying to the public and withholding the truth.

	...Even if Clinton does win the election and occupy the White House, the global end game is fast approaching anyway. A Clinton White House only further encourages the calls for revolt across the population, and Hillary's deep corruption and criminality is so despised by nearly all soldiers and police officers that it's hard to imagine her being able to demand respect from either of those groups. In fact, it's a lot easier to imagine a military coup against President Clinton that it is to imagine a successful eradication of the Second Amendment by her presidency. Even if Clinton ordered police across America to go door to door and confiscate all the firearms of private citizens, what cop would be stupid enough to even attempt such a suicide mission?

	I can't overstate this point: Things are at a breaking point in America, and the only thing holding back a mass revolt right now is the looming election, which presents at least a glimmer of hope to the people of America that they might beat back tyranny and government oppression with a Trump victory.

	...What Washington elites utterly fail to realize is that for many Americans, they have nothing else left to lose if they lose this election. They've already lost their job and their health coverage. In many places across America, they're losing their own national flag and national pride. They've been ridiculed, condemned and spat upon by the dishonest media and the crybully leftist f--ktards, and they realize full well that if they don't draw a line in the sand right here, right now, they're going to be disarmed, enslaved, impoverished and named "enemies of the state" in the very same country they once fought for (and pledged allegiance to).

	The psyche of real America has reached its last straw. With the culture under attack, the Constitution demonized, religious beliefs targeted for merciless condemnation and the industrial base of America utterly gutted beyond restoration, there is nothing left to surrender to the demands of the tyrannical left. It is at that breaking point where, in the minds of many citizens throughout history, they pick up pitch forks and march en masse against the oppressors in power.

	We are very, very close to that day in America. It may, in fact, unravel in just the next 100 days. No matter who wins this election, mass violence breaks out across America in one way or another.


------




http://www.businessinsider.com/why-didnt-the-fbi-charge-hillary-clinton-2016-7
	Pamela Engel

	He added: "Presumably they didn't find that there was any particular email ... which had content where anybody looking at that content would say, 'Oh my gosh, that could threaten national security.'"


funny



------


http://fortune.com/2016/07/15/hillary-clinton-email-scandal-poll/
	Republicans are also more likely than Democrats to say Clinton's email use is a major problem, 85 percent to 22 percent. But 49 percent of Democrats say it's a minor problem, while just 29 percent don't think it's a problem at all.



------


http://fortune.com/2016/07/15/hillary-clinton-email-scandal-poll/
	The poll suggests perceptions that Clinton is dishonest, already a major issue for her campaign, are growing. Fifty-five percent of Americans say the word "honest" doesn't describe Clinton well at all, up slightly from 50 percent in April and 44 percent in October 2015.

	Another 18 percent say she is only slightly honest.

	Thompson, of Connecticut, said he supported neurosurgeon Ben Carson's campaign in the Republican primaries but recently placed a Trump bumper sticker on his car.

	"I have come around on Trump just because I think he's being more truthful than Hillary," he said. "The truthfulness is everything. We can't have somebody in office who is going to lie to us."
