Heads up, a correction:

In my last email (https://pastebin.com/8za8vxH6), I said President Trump "handed [Russian intelligence] some of our country's most closely-guarded secrets, endangering the lives of people who, unlike him, actually care about our country," citing an article in the Independent that refers to a recent controversial article in the Washington post entitled "Trump revealed highly classified information to Russian foreign minister and ambassador."

After looking into this more, I'm pretty the premise of this article is false, like National Security Advisor McMaster told the press a few days ago, and I was mistaken to cite it.

The Okhrana knows Trump will be mired in scandals for the rest of his (hopefully short) presidency no matter what. From what I've learned from watching their propaganda targeting the left, instead of downplaying these scandals, a lot of the time they make up and fake scandals or sensationalize minor scandals. I think this practice serves two purposes: 1. to discredit people who are suspicious of Trump by getting them to believe dubious stories they can later prove false, and 2. to draw attention away from real scandals that could actually have consequences for Trump. This might be one example of this kind of propaganda: http://money.cnn.com/2017/05/17/media/fbi-raid-orrin-hatch-russian-election-meddling/

I think the WaPo article about Trump revealing classified information is part of one of these misleading scandal campaigns. It looks sensationalized:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/trump-revealed-highly-classified-information-to-russian-foreign-minister-and-ambassador/2017/05/15/530c172a-3960-11e7-9e48-c4f199710b69_story.html
	The information the president relayed had been provided by a U.S. partner through an intelligence-sharing arrangement considered so sensitive that details have been withheld from allies and tightly restricted even within the U.S. government, officials said. 

The author says the "intelligence-sharing arrangement" was sensitive, but was the "information relayed" sensitive? This is misleading.


	It was during that meeting, officials said, that Trump went off script and began describing details of an Islamic State terrorist threat related to the use of laptop computers on aircraft.

...and then he links to an article describing details of the plot (https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/trafficandcommuting/us-unveils-new-restrictions-on-travelers-from-eight-muslim-majority-countries/2017/03/21/d4efd080-0dcb-11e7-9d5a-a83e627dc120_story.html).


	He did not reveal the specific intelligence-gathering method, but he described how the Islamic State was pursuing elements of a specific plot

This one? https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/mar/26/plot-explosives-ipad-us-uk-laptop-ban


	and how much harm such an attack could cause under varying circumstances. 

e.g. "I read in a Washington Post article the other day that a laptop bomb on an airplane could really mess up your day if you don't have a parachute!"


	Most alarmingly, officials said, Trump revealed the city in the Islamic State’s territory where the U.S. intelligence partner detected the threat.

How many cities are in ISIS territory? Three? If Russian spies are reading, the author has already narrowed it down for them! $10 says it's Raqqa, Mosul, or Deir Al-Zour 


	Senior White House officials appeared to recognize quickly that Trump had overstepped and moved to contain the potential fallout. Thomas P. Bossert, assistant to the president for homeland security and counterterrorism, placed calls to the directors of the CIA and the NSA, the services most directly involved in the intelligence-sharing arrangement with the partner.

This is Tom Bossert:

https://www.csis.org/analysis/cyber-disrupt-2017-keynote-next-steps-cybersecurity-after-decade-lessons-learned

	THOMAS BOSSERT: ...However, also, not an or, not an instead of, but in addition to, we will hold the entire federal network as an enterprise and view it as something that needs to be defended as such. We can no longer dream away the notion that we will have cybersecurity expertise in terms of capital investment and human investment resident at 190 or 220 federal agencies. It would be very difficult to achieve and sustain that, and it would be unwise for us to attempt to do it on behalf of the taxpayer. So shared services will be a fundamental requirement. How we achieve that will require some time, and we’ll come out with some details as we move forward.

	Secondly, in addition to modernization and shared services, we have to look at this enterprise risk in a national-security holistic manner. We often talk about OPM. There’s going to be a strong push to manage our risk using the framework. Most of you will have heard that before. Frankly, I think it’s a good idea.

	But the second question is going to become what are our metrics? We’re aware that we need metrics. And I’ll use that word here so that you don’t accuse me of not knowing what I’m talking about. Those metrics, though, will be something that we know when we see them. OPM is a good example, because we all know that now, in retrospect, as having been an obvious metric. We had crown jewels in a system, held responsibly in some ways by an OPM director who had been in charge of her own or his own, depending on who our next OPM director will be, enterprise.


He's a windbag. He has no idea what he's saying, and probably hasn't for the past 14 years.

McMaster is a man with a solid reputation who, unlike the author of the WaPo article, can speak from a first-hand account of Trump's conversation with Lavrov and Kislyak. This is what he says:


http://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/16/mcmaster_national_security_put_at_risk_by_leaks_like_washington_post_story.html
	QUESTION: General McMaster, you came out to the stakeout area yesterday and in coming out to the stakeout area you said that the Washington Post story that came out late yesterday afternoon was false.

	Do you stick by that assertion? Do you think that every element of that story is false? And do you have anything to correct in terms of what you said at the podium yesterday afternoon?

	H.R. MCMASTER: No, I -- I stand by my statement that I made yesterday.

	What I'm saying is really the premise of that article is false, that in any way the president had a conversation that was inappropriate or that resulted in any kind of lapse in -- in national security.

	...

	QUESTION: General, I just want to try to dig into some details of this reporting on the president's conversations with the Russians.

	Are you denying that he revealed information that was given to the U.S. by an intelligence partner?

	MCMASTER: So, what I -- what we don't do is discuss what is and what -- what isn't classified.

	What I will tell you, is in the context of that -- that -- that discussion, what the president discussed with the foreign minister was wholly appropriate to that conversation and is consistent with the routine sharing of information between the president and -- and any leaders with whom he's engaged.
	
	...

	QUESTION: When did he make the decision to share the information...

	MCMASTER: He made the decision in the context of -- of the conversation, which was wholly appropriate.

	So, let's just -- I think one -- one -- I think it's worth recapping one thing here.

	The president was meeting with -- with the foreign minister about -- about the terrorist threat. He'd also raised some difficult issues: what he -- what we expected in terms of different behavior from Russia in -- in key areas like -- like -- like Ukraine, and -- and as in Syria.

	But then the president was emphasizing, "Hey, we have some common interests here. We have to work together in some critical areas." And we have an area -- we have a -- an area of cooperation with transnational terrorist organizations, ISIS in particular, an organization that had already taken down a Russian airliner and murdered over 200 people in October of 2015.

	And so -- so -- so this was the -- the -- the context of the conversation in which it was wholly appropriate to share what the threat was as a basis for common action and coordination and cooperation.

	...

	QUESTION: And my -- my second (ph) -- can I get to the question that I had, please?

	Did the president reveal a city? And that -- I mean, the spin is that the president revealed the name of the city, and that gave away information that undermined an ally.MCMASTER: OK, I -- I will answer that.

	OK, so, all of you are very familiar with the threat from ISIS. All of you are very familiar with the territory it controls. If you were to say, "Hey, from where do you think a threat might come from territory that ISIS controls?," you would probably be able to name a few cities, I would think.

	And so it was -- it was nothing that you would not know from open source reporting in terms of a source of concern. And it had -- it had all to do with operations that are already ongoing, had been made public for months.

	...
	
	QUESTION: General, when you came out after the story broke, you said that the president did not disclose any sources or methods. He did not reveal anything about military operations. Why were you denying things that were not even reported? What the report said is that the president revealed classified information that had been shared by one of our allies in the Middle East. So the question is simply a yes or no question here. Did the president share classified information with the Russians in that meeting?

	MCMASTER: As I mentioned already, we don't say what's classified, what's not classified. What I will tell you again is that what the president shared was wholly appropriate. The story -- the story combined what was leaked with other information and then -- and the insinuated about sources and methods. So I wanted to make clear to everybody that the president in no way compromised any sources or methods in the course of this conversation.

	...And I should just make -- I should just make maybe the statement here that the president wasn't even aware, you know, where this information came from. He wasn't briefed on the source or method of the information either.


I'm guessing that the name of the city was classified and Trump did reveal it. But there's sometimes a difference between "classified" and "sensitive": The Air Force once tried to classify the fact that the Nixon administration ordered a DEFCON 3 alert during the 1973 Arab-Israeli war--except ordering a DEFCON 3 involves telling everybody we're at DEFCON 3 (http://nsarchive.gwu.edu/nukevault/ebb281/).

The threat of Trump blurting out sensitive information is real, but it doesn't look like that happened this time. And the good guys in our Government almost certainly have thought of ways to mitigate this threat by now. Reading between the lines, it sounds like McMaster has a habit of nudging Trump away from disclosing things he shouldn't: http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/333663-trump-called-mcmaster-a-pain-thinks-he-talks-too-much-report And U.S. intelligence agencies would also have ways to help prevent Trump from revealing sensitive sources and methods, like not briefing him on them--which is exactly what McMaster said happened in this case.

Maybe the one mystery is: Why did Bossert call the CIA and NSA directors "to contain the potential fallout," as the WaPo article puts it?

http://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/16/mcmaster_national_security_put_at_risk_by_leaks_like_washington_post_story.html
	QUESTION: The -- going back to what you were saying earlier, if there was nothing that the president shared that he shouldn't have shared, why does his national -- his counterterrorism adviser contact the NSA and the CIA about what he had said?

	MCMASTER: Yeah, I -- I would -- I would say maybe it's from an overabundance of precaution, but I'm not sure. I mean, I -- I not -- I've not talked to -- to -- to Mr. Bossert about -- about that, about why he -- why he reached out.

	...

	QUESTION: Presumably you would understand why there was a reason to reach out.

	MCMASTER: So, I -- I -- I was in the room, the secretary of state was in the room, as you know, the deputy assistant -- the deputy adviser for national security, Dina Powell, for strategy was in the room. And -- and none of us felt in any way that that conversation was inappropriate.


I'm not sure exactly what Bossert was doing, but I'm pretty sure that between McMaster and Bossert, McMaster is the more trustworthy one.

I have to look into it more, but so far I'm guessing this whole story was just more active measures. I can't say this without sounding like a hypocrite--since it fooled me too--but if it's true that "Trump leaked to Lavrov and Kislyak" is active measures, then there is an opportunity here to use it to guess who their spies are--e.g. people who went out of their way to promote this story or who sensationalized it even more.

All that said, it looks like the claim that Trump "handed [Russian intelligence] some of our country's most closely-guarded secrets, endangering the lives of people who, unlike him, actually care about our country" is true anyway, but for different reasons. Below is a timeline of a Trump scandal that I think is very real:


----------------
Dec 7, 2015


Presidential candidate Trump calls for a "total and complete shutdown" of Muslims entering the U.S.:


http://www.cbsnews.com/news/donald-trump-calls-for-total-and-complete-shutdown-of-muslims-entering-u-s/
	Donald Trump on Monday called for blocking all Muslims from entering the U.S.

	"Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what is going on," his campaign said in a statement.

	The press release sent by Trump's campaign is titled, "Donald J. Trump Statement on Preventing Muslim Immigration," but the statement seems to go beyond immigration, calling for "total and complete shutdown of Muslims from entering the U.S." CBS News has reached out to the Trump campaign for clarification.


----------------
Dec 29, 2016


President Obama expels 35 suspected Russian spies and places new sanctions on Russia for interfering in the 2016 election:

https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2016/dec/29/barack-obama-sanctions-russia-election-hack


President-Elect Trump's National Security Advisor pick, Micheal Flynn, calls Russian Ambassador Kislyak multiple times to privately discuss President Obama's sanctions:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/national-security-adviser-flynn-discussed-sanctions-with-russian-ambassador-despite-denials-officials-say/2017/02/09/f85b29d6-ee11-11e6-b4ff-ac2cf509efe5_story.html


----------------
Dec 30, 2016


Putin announces he will not hit back for Obama's sanctions and expulsion of spies:

http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-russia-cyber-idUSKBN14I1TY


President-elect praises Putin for this:

https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/814919370711461890
	Great move on delay (by V. Putin) - I always knew he was very smart!


----------------
Jan 12, 2017


Journalist David Ignatius reveals that Flynn had multiple suspicious phone calls with Russian Ambassador Kislyak the same day Obama announced the new Russian sanctions:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/why-did-obama-dawdle-on-russias-hacking/2017/01/12/75f878a0-d90c-11e6-9a36-1d296534b31e_story.html
	According to a senior U.S. government official, Flynn phoned Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak several times on Dec. 29, the day the Obama administration announced the expulsion of 35 Russian officials as well as other measures in retaliation for the hacking. What did Flynn say, and did it undercut the U.S. sanctions? The Logan Act (though never enforced) bars U.S. citizens from correspondence intending to influence a foreign government about “disputes” with the United States. Was its spirit violated? The Trump campaign didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.

	...UPDATE: The Trump transition team did not respond Thursday night to a request for comment. But two team members called with information Friday morning. A first Trump official confirmed that Flynn had spoken with Kislyak by phone, but said the calls were before sanctions were announced and didn’t cover that topic.


----------------
Jan 13


WH Press Secretary Sean Spicer denies that Flynn discussed the U.S. sanctions with Kislyak:

http://www.npr.org/2017/01/13/509670980/trump-team-top-adviser-talked-with-russian-ambassador-before-u-s-hacking-respons
	"[Flynn] then took that call on the 28th and the call centered around the logistics of setting up a call with the president of Russia and the president-elect after he was sworn in. And they exchanged logistical information on how to initiate and schedule that call. That was it, plain and simple."


----------------
Jan 15


VP Mike Pence denies that Flynn discussed sanctions with Kislyak, citing a conversation with Flynn:


http://www.cbsnews.com/news/face-the-nation-transcript-january-15-2017-pence-manchin-gingrich/
	JOHN DICKERSON: Let me ask you about it was reported by David Ignatius that the incoming national security advisor Michael Flynn was in touch with the Russian ambassador on the day the United States government announced sanctions for Russian interference with the election. Did that contact help with that Russian kind of moderate response to it? That there was no counter-reaction from Russia. Did the Flynn conversation help pave the way for that sort of more temperate Russian response? 

	MIKE PENCE: I talked to General Flynn about that conversation and actually was initiated on Christmas Day he had sent a text to the Russian ambassador to express not only Christmas wishes but sympathy for the loss of life in the airplane crash that took place. It was strictly coincidental that they had a conversation. They did not discuss anything having to do with the United States’ decision to expel diplomats or impose censure against Russia.  

	JOHN DICKERSON: So did they ever have a conversation about sanctions ever on those days or any other day?  

	MIKE PENCE: They did not have a discussion contemporaneous with U.S. actions on--  

	JOHN DICKERSON: But what about after--

	MIKE PENCE: --my conversation with General Flynn. Well, look. General Flynn has been in touch with diplomatic leaders, security leaders in some 30 countries. That’s exactly what the incoming national security advisor--  

	JOHN DICKERSON: Absolutely.  

	MIKE PENCE: --should do. But what I can confirm, having spoken to him about it, is that those conversations that happened to occur around the time that the United States took action to expel diplomats had nothing whatsoever to do with those sanctions.

	JOHN DICKERSON: But that still leaves open the possibility that there might have been other conversations about the sanctions. 

	MIKE PENCE: I don’t believe there were more conversations.  

	JOHN DICKERSON: Okay. Okay. Okay. Let’s move on. Okay. Got it--

	MIKE PENCE: I can confirm those elements were not a part of that discussion.


----------------
Jan 17


Amid controversies, the Trump transition team tells current federal prosecutors they can stay on for "some time" after Trump is sworn in:


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/01/trump-us-attorneys-233740
	"Currently serving U.S. Attorneys and U.S. Marshals were informed today that they are able to stay in place after January 20th while the process for identifying and confirming successors is further determined," Justice spokesman Wyn Hornbuckle said.

	The issue of removing U.S. attorneys at the change of administration has been a contentious one in past years.


http://www.nbc26.com/news/national/why-trumps-inauguration-weekend-could-attract-the-most-protesters-since-bushs-2005-swearing-in
	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Protests at the Republican National Convention in July turned out to have been vastly over-hyped, but inauguration weekend in Washington, D.C., could be just the opposite.

	With almost 1 million people expected to converge on the Capital, including multiple groups of anti-Trump protesters, inauguration weekend could see large, organized demonstrations that might even signal the start of a Tea Party-style movement with grass-roots chapters.


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-us-attorneys-federal-prosecutors_us_587fa66be4b01cdc64c900c4
	The news about the future of the nation’s top federal prosecutors came less than 72 hours before Trump’s swearing in at noon on Friday. Before the announcement, officials in several U.S. attorneys’ offices told The Huffington Post they had received no guidance from the incoming administration on whether they were expected to resign when Trump became president.

	...R.C. Hammond, a spokesman for the Trump transition team, rejected the premise that the announcement about the fate of the nation’s top federal prosecutors had come late. 


Attorney General Loretta Lynch announces plans to resign, leaving then Deputy Attorney General Sally Q. Yates to be acting Attorney General under Trump.


----------------
Jan 20


Donald Trump is sworn-in as President.


Micheal Flynn is likewise sworn in as National Security Advisor under Trump.


Flynn brings on Ezra Cohen-Watnick as Senior Intelligence Director.


Former Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates becomes acting Attorney General under Trump.


----------------
Jan 23

Law enforcement and intel officials tell CNN Flynn's phone calls with Kislyak are being looked at in a counterintelligence investigation:


http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/23/politics/flynn-russia-calls-investigation/
	US investigators are scrutinizing late December calls between Mike Flynn, President Donald Trump's national security adviser, and Russia's ambassador to the US as part of a broader counterintelligence investigation of Russian activities in the US, law enforcement and intelligence officials told CNN.

	The calls were captured by routine US eavesdropping targeting the Russian diplomats, according to the intelligence and law enforcement officials. But the officials said some of the content of the conversation raised enough potential concerns that investigators are still looking into the discussions, amid a broader concern about Russian intelligence-gathering activities in the United States. 


----------------
Jan 24


The FBI interviews Micheal Flynn:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	WHITEHOUSE: Following the Comey line, the director testified a few days ago in the full committee that the FBI had interviewed Mr. Flynn a day before, or two days before, your meeting at the White House, and you've just testified that you had told the White House counsel that the FBI had interviewed Flynn and he'd asked -- McGahn had asked, how'd he do?

	YATES: Right.

	WHITEHOUSE: Did you have the 302 with you when you were in the White House? Did you show it to White House counsel? And had you seen it at the time you went up to the White House?

	YATES: No. The FBI had conducted the interview on the 24th. We got a readout from the FBI on the 25th, a detailed readout specifically from the agents that had conducted the interview.


Reportedly, Flynn lied to the FBI about discussing sanctions with Kislyak during the interview:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/flynn-in-fbi-interview-denied-discussing-sanctions-with-russian-ambassador/2017/02/16/e3e1e16a-f3d5-11e6-8d72-263470bf0401_story.html
	Former national security adviser Michael Flynn denied to FBI agents in an interview last month that he had discussed U.S. sanctions against Russia with that country’s ambassador to the United States before President Trump took office, contradicting the contents of intercepted communications collected by intelligence agencies, current and former U.S. officials said.

	The Jan. 24 interview potentially puts Flynn in legal jeopardy. Lying to the FBI is a felony offense. But several officials said it is unclear whether prosecutors would attempt to bring a case, in part because Flynn may parse the definition of the word “sanctions.” He also followed his denial to the FBI by saying he couldn’t recall all of the conversation, officials said.


At 6:37 PM the night of Jan 24, Trump tweets "Big day planned on NATIONAL SECURITY tomorrow.":

https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/824083821889015809


At 9:00 PM, anonymous officials report that President Trump is expected to sign an executive order blocking immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries:

http://www.cnbc.com/2017/01/24/trump-to-restrict-immigration-from-several-middle-east-countries-reuters.html
	 U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to sign several executive orders on Wednesday restricting immigration from Syria and six other Middle Eastern or African countries, according to several congressional aides and immigration experts briefed on the matter.

	In addition to Syria, Trump's orders are expected to temporarily restrict access to the United States for most refugees. Another order will block visas from being issued to those from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen, said the aides and experts, who asked not to be identified.

	The restrictions on refugees are likely to include a multi-month ban on admissions from all countries until the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security can make the vetting process more rigorous.


----------------
Jan 25


Acting AG Sally Yates receives a readout of the FBI interview with Flynn:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	
	YATES: ...We got a readout from the FBI on the 25th, a detailed readout specifically from the agents that had conducted the interview. But we didn't want to wait for the 302, because we felt that it was important to get this information to the White House as quickly as possible, so we had folks from the national security division who spent a lot of time with the agents, not only finding out exactly how the interview went but how this impacted their investigation.


That afternoon, a draft of Trump's travel ban is leaked to the Huffington Post:

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/read-draft-text-trump-executive-order-muslim-entry_us_5888fe00e4b0024605fd591d


That night, thousands around the country protest Trump's travel ban, calling it a Muslim ban:

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/protestors-flood-nycs-washington-square-park-in-anticipation-of-muslim-ban_us_58893575e4b0737fd5cb81db

http://www.thedailystar.net/world/protesters-fill-nyc-park-protest-muslim-immigration-ban-1351291

https://www.democracynow.org/2017/1/26/headlines/thousands_protest_trumps_immigration_crackdown_in_nyc_dc_la


Later that night, Trump defends his travel ban, saying "it's not a Muslim ban." Trump said the real intent of the ban was to stop dangerous immigrants working for ISIS:

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/01/trump-immigration-block-muslim-ban-234205
	President Donald Trump said his plans to temporarily halt the entry of refugees and citizens of several Muslim-majority countries into the U.S. was "not the Muslim ban" he frequently promised on the campaign trail but that he still planned to institute "extreme vetting" against certain nations.

	“No, it’s not the Muslim ban,” the president told ABC's David Muir during an interview that aired Wednesday night, while reiterating the need to restrict access into the U.S. in some form.

	“You’re looking at people that come in in many cases with evil intentions. I don’t want that. They’re ISIS. They’re coming in under false pretense. I don’t want that," he added.


Trump indicates he might sign the travel ban on the 26th.


----------------
Jan 26


Yates was concerned that the Russians had compromised Flynn with blackmail regarding his conduct, and that this was a serious matter of national security. The DOJ believed this situation urgent, and Yates made an effort to inform the White House as soon as possible, deciding not wait for a 302 (official summary) of the FBI's interview with Flynn:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	WHITEHOUSE: You could perhaps have waited until you actually had seen the agents 302 from the interview of General Flynn. Why go ahead of that? Why not wait?

	YATES: Well, because this was a matter of some urgency, we...

	WHITEHOUSE: Describe.

	YATES: In making the determination about notification here, we had to balance a variety of interest. For the reasons that I just described a few minutes ago, we felt like it was critical that we get this information to the White House, because in part because the vice president was unknowingly making false statements to the public and because we believed that General Flynn was compromised with respect to the Russians.

	We were balancing this though, against the FBI's investigation, as you would always do, and take into account the investigating agency's desires and concerns about how a notification might impact that ongoing investigation. But once General Flynn was interviewed, there was no longer a concern about an impact on an investigation.


The morning of the 26th, Yates called White House Counsel Don McGahn to warn the White House:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: I had two in-person meetings and one phone call with the White House Counsel about Mr. Flynn. The first meeting occurred on January 26, called Don McGahn first thing that morning and told him that I had a very sensitive matter that I needed to discuss with him, that I couldn't talk about it on the phone and that I needed to come see him. And he agreed to meet with me later that afternoon.

	I took a senior member of the national security division who was overseeing this matter with me to meet with Mr. McGahn. We met in his office at the White House which is a skiff (ph) so we could discuss classified information in his office. We began our meeting telling him that there had been press accounts of statements from the vice president and others that related conduct that Mr. Flynn had been involved in that we knew not to be the truth.


She and a senior official from the DOJ's National Security Division met with McGahn and another White House Council associate later that afternoon.

Yates explained Flynn's conduct in detail to McGahn, that Flynn's conduct was problematic, that he risked blackmail from the Russians, that Flynn lied to the Vice President about his conduct, and that the Vice President repeating this lie to the press made the potential for blackmail even worse since the Russians had proof he lied:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: So I told them again that there were a number of press accounts of statements that had been made by the vice president and other high-ranking White House officials about General Flynn's conduct that we knew to be untrue. And we told them how we knew that this - how we had this information, how we had acquired it, and how we knew that it was untrue.

	And we walked the White House Counsel who also had an associate there with him through General Flynn's underlying conduct, the contents of which I obviously cannot go through with you today because it's classified. But we took him through in a fair amount of detail of the underlying conduct, what General Flynn had done, and then we walked through the various press accounts and how it had been falsely reported.

	We also told the White House Counsel that General Flynn had been interviewed by the FBI on February 24. Mr. McGahn asked me how he did and I declined to give him an answer to that. And we then walked through with Mr. McGahn essentially why we were telling them about this and the first thing we did was to explain to Mr. McGahn that the underlying conduct that General Flynn had engaged in was problematic in and of itself.

	Secondly, we told him we felt like the vice president and others were entitled to know that the information that they were conveying to the American people wasn't true. And we wanted to make it really clear right out of the gate that we were not accusing Vice President Pence of knowingly providing false information to the American people.

	And, in fact, Mr. McGahn responded back to me to let me know that anything that General Flynn would've said would have been based -- excuse me -- anything that Vice President Pence would have said would have been based on what General Flynn had told him.

	We told him the third reason was -- is because we were concerned that the American people had been misled about the underlying conduct and what General Flynn had done, and additionally, that we weren't the only ones that knew all of this, that the Russians also knew about what General Flynn had done.

	And the Russians also knew that General Flynn had misled the vice president and others, because in the media accounts, it was clear from the vice president and others that they were repeating what General Flynn had told them, and that this was a problem because not only did we believe that the Russians knew this, but that they likely had proof of this information.

	And that created a compromise situation, a situation where the national security adviser essentially could be blackmailed by the Russians. Finally, we told them that we were giving them all of this information so that they could take action, the action that they deemed appropriate.

	I remember that Mr. McGahn asked me whether or not General Flynn should be fired, and I told him that that really wasn't our call, that was up to them, but that we were giving them this information so that they could take action, and that was the first meeting.


Yates told McGahn the DOJ was informing the White House about Flynn so they could take action.


----------------
Jan 27


The morning of the 27th, White House Counsel McGahn called Yates and asked her to come back to discuss the Flynn issue further.


The afternoon of the 27th, Yates met McGahn in his office, accompanied by the same people from the Jan 26th meeting. One of McGahn's first questions was "why does it matter to the DOJ if one White House officials lies to another?" Yates explained again to McGahn how Flynn's lying amplified his risk of blackmail:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	WHITEHOUSE: Which meant that he was vulnerable to manipulation by the Russians, who knowing what had actually taken place could call up the national security advisor to the president and say, you got to do this for us or we're going to out you with all your folks and your career is done.

	YATES: That's right, because one of the questions that Mr. McGahn asked me when I went back over the second day was essentially, why does it matter to DOJ if one White House official lies to another White House official?

	And so we explained to him, it was a whole lot more than that and went back over the same concerns that we had raised with them the prior day, that the concern first about the underlying conduct itself, that he had lied to the vice president and others, the American public had been misled.

	And then importantly, that every time this lie was repeated and the misrepresentations were getting more and more specific, as -- as they were coming out. Every time that happened, it increased the compromise and to state the obvious, you don't want your national security advisor compromised with the Russians.


McGahn asked Yates if the White House should fire Flynn, who told him it wasn't her call. McGahn was interested in the possibility Flynn would face criminal prosecution for his conduct and asked to see the underlying evidence:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: Sure. The first topic in the second meeting was essentially why does it matter to DOJ if one White House official lies to another. The second topic related to the applicability of criminal statutes and the likelihood that the Department of Justice would pursue a criminal case. The third topic was his concern that their taking action might interfere with an investigation of Mr. Flynn. And the fourth topic was his request to see the underlying evidence.

	...YATES: ...And there was a request made by Mr. McGahn, in the second meeting as to whether or not they would be able to look at the underlying evidence that we had that we had described for him of General Flynn's conduct. And we told him that we were inclined to allow them to look at that underlying evidence, that we wanted to go back to DOJ and be able to make the logistical arrangements for that. This second meeting on the 27th occurred late in the afternoon, this is Friday the 27th. So we told him that we would work with the FBI over the weekend on this issue and get back with him on Monday morning. And I called him first thing Monday morning to let him know that we would allow them to come over and to review the underlying evidence.


Shortly after Yates' meeting with McGahn, President Trump released his executive order banning travel from 7 Muslim-majority countries: 

https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/jan/27/donald-trump-muslim-refugee-ban-executive-action


Yates, the DOJ, national security experts, and other experts were not consulted or told about the executive order before it was released:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: No and that was one thing that was of concern to us, is that not only was department leadership not consulted here and beyond department leadership, really the subject matter experts, the national security experts, not only was the department not consulted, we weren't even told about it. I learned about this from media reports.

	KLOBUCHAR: So you learned about it after the meeting at the White house Council from the media.

	YATES: Right.


----------------
Jan 28th


President Trump's travel ban causes worldwide chaos and outrage:


http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/30/politics/trump-travel-ban-q-and-a/
	This is the "extreme vetting" Trump promised during the campaign, but it still seems to have caught folks by surprise.

	Team Trump apparently never ran the order by officials at the Justice Department. Homeland Security officials weren't given much guidance about how the order would be implemented or enforced. Thus the confusion and chaos.

	The ban snared green card holders and people with valid visas alike. Some travelers who were in the air when Trump signed the order weren't able to enter the country when they landed. Some were detained. Others were sent back to where they flew in from. Lawsuits began to fly and by Saturday night a federal judge had temporarily and partially blocked Trump's order.

	How big is the backlash?

	It's global. Hundreds showed up at airports across the country -- from New York to Atlanta to Dallas to Seattle -- to protest. Vocal crowds against the order gathered outside the White House. 

	...There's panic in some US colleges and universities that have a large number of foreign students. Some students and faculty members fear they'll have to decide between careers or families. Some raced back to the United States as the executive order loomed, so they would be able to complete a degree. Now they're left to wonder when they'll get to see their families again if they remain in the United States.

	...There's hardship for those who planned to come to the States as well. Mahmoud Hassan, an 18-year-old Syrian in Damascus, accepted an offer to attend MIT earlier this year, but because of the ban, he said his "dreams are basically ruined." 


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2017/01/28/trump-moves-past-day-refugee-ban-putin-more-executive-orders/97181992/
	...Judge grants emergency stay for those in limbo after immigration ban

	...Protests ramp up at airports across USA

	...Lawsuits also on the rise

	...Dozens detained at U.S. airports, other stranded abroad

	...Iran retaliates, Canada opens arms after Trump immigration ban

	...Trump: Immigration ban working 'nicely’

	...Refugee fallout around the USA

	...Advocacy group flooded with 1,000 calls amid 'complete chaos

	...Iranian filmmaker Asghar Farhadi can't go to Oscars

	...Travel uncertainty for tens of thousands

	...Shockwaves felt through tech industry


Trump surrogate Rudy Giuliani tells Fox news that Trump asked him to create a commission to find the right way to do a Muslim ban legally. Giuliani says his team concluded Trump should have his ban focus on "danger" instead of religion:

http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/316726-giuliani-trump-asked-me-how-to-do-a-muslim-ban-legally
	Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani (R) said in an interview on Saturday that President Trump had previously asked him about legally implementing a "Muslim ban."

	But Giuliani then disputed the notion that the president's sweeping executive order barring refugees and people from seven predominantly Muslim nations amounts to a ban on Muslims.

	"I’ll tell you the whole history of it: When he first announced it, he said ‘Muslim ban,'" Giuliani said on Fox News.

	"He called me up, he said, ‘Put a commission together, show me the right way to do it legally.’"

	Giuliani said he then put together a commission that included lawmakers and expert lawyers.

	"And what we did was we focused on, instead of religion, danger," Giuliani said.

	"The areas of the world that create danger for us, which is a factual basis, not a religious basis. Perfectly legal, perfectly sensible."

	Giuliani reiterated that the ban is "not based on religion."

	"It's based on places where there are substantial evidence that people are sending terrorists into our country," he said.


A federal Judge blocks part of Trump's travel ban to protect people from injuries:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2017/01/29/president-trumps-travel-ban-is-causing-chaos-dont-expect-him-to-back-down/
	A federal judge in New York blocked deportations nationwide late Saturday of those detained on entry to the United States after an executive order from President Trump targeted citizens from seven predominantly Muslim countries.

	Judge Ann Donnelly of the U.S. District Court in Brooklyn granted a request from the American Civil Liberties Union to stop the deportations after determining that the risk of injury to those detained by being returned to their home countries necessitated the decision.


----------------
Jan 29th


Trump's travel ban executive order faces legal troubles:

http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/28/politics/2-iraqis-file-lawsuit-after-being-detained-in-ny-due-to-travel-ban/
	Judges temporarily block part of Trump's immigration order, WH stands by it


----------------
Jan 30th


The morning of Jan 30th, Yates called McGahn to let him know that the evidence of Flynn's conduct was available for him to review. McGahn was not available and Yates didn't hear back from him until that afternoon. 

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: ... that the material was available. He had to call me back. He was not available then and I did not hear back from him until that afternoon of Monday the 30th.


That same afternoon, Yates sent a letter to Justice Department lawyers, saying or implying that after taking into account statements by Trump's administration, his surrogates, and the order's purpose, Trump's executive order is unlawful and that she could not defend it:

https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/01/30/us/document-Letter-From-Sally-Yates.html
	My role is different from that of the Office of Legal Counsel (OLC), which, through administrations of both parties, has reviewed Executive ORders for form and legality before they are issued. OLC's review is limited to the narrow question of whether, in OLC's view, a proposed Executive Order is lawful on its face and properly drafted. Its review does not take account of statements made by an administration or its surrogates close in time to the issuance of an Executive Order that may bear on the order's purpose. And importantly, it does not address whether any policy choice embodied in an Executive Order is wise or just.

	...My responsibility is to ensure that the position of the Department of Justice is not only legally defensible, but informed by our best view of what the law is after consideration of all the facts.

	...I am not convinced that the defense of the Executive Order is consistent with these responsibilities nor am I convinced that the Executive Order is lawful.


At 9:15 PM, Sally Yates was fired for refusing to defend Trump's travel ban.


Yates was fired before she was able to verify if McGahn ever reviewed the evidence underlying Flynn's conduct, although the NSD official who attended the meetings with her might know:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: No, again, I was gone after the 30th. And so it's -- I wouldn't know if -- if any steps had been communicated to the Department of Justice, but I was not aware of any, no.

	...KLOBUCHAR: About when you were giving these warnings about the knowledge you had on General Flynn. Is that normal practice? Why did you do that?

	YATES: Well, this was a person who was the career lawyer who was supervising this matter and we thought that it was important. First of all, she had been the one who was most intimately familiar with it, but secondly, we knew that my tenure was going to be short and wanted to make sure that there was continuity there and that...

	(CROSSTALK)

	KLOBUCHAR: You just didn't know it was going to be that short.

	YATES: I didn't.


Trump selected U.S. attorney Dana Boente to be sworn in as Yates' replacement.


----------------
Feb 2


Flynn hires four new top deputies at the National Security Council: David Cattler, John Eisenberg, Kenneth Juster, and Kevin Harrington:

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/02/national-security-council-new-advisers-234537


Flynn is said to plan on relying on a close-knit "layer" of aides at the NSC to be a "barrier" between NSC professional staff and top White House officials, drawing concern:

http://www.politico.eu/article/donald-trump-team-building-a-wall-inside-national-security-council/
	President Donald Trump’s national security adviser is planning to rely on a new layer of hand-picked aides to serve as a “barrier” between the professional staff of the National Security Council and top White House officials, according to two sources with direct knowledge.

	Such a move by retired Lt. Gen. Mike Flynn is stoking fears of an even more insular decision-making process than reigned during the Obama administration, which was roundly criticized for micro-managing national security and eroding the influence of the Pentagon, State Department and other agencies. And it is prompting some frustrated career staffers in the primary policymaking body inside the White House, who had been asked to stay on under Trump, to consider departing instead, say the sources.

	“You will not have the experts in the room when the principals are having these discussions,” worries one NSC veteran who has heard complaints from White House officials this week. The person, like others, agreed to speak on condition of anonymity.

	“They are not being used,” added another source with direct knowledge of the developments, who similarly expressed concern that the Trump team is “doubling down on cutting out the professional experts.”


At some point during his tenure, Flynn's NSC develops a reputation for prioritizing access to raw intelligence, which tends to include more sensitive sources and methods:

http://www.militarytimes.com/articles/trump-changes-relationship-between-white-house-spy-agencies
    Officials have expressed an interest in having more raw intelligence sent to the president for his daily briefings instead of an analysis of information compiled by the agencies, according to current and former U.S. officials. The change would have given his White House advisers more control about the assessments given to him and sidelined some of the conclusions made by intelligence professionals.
 
    One official said the focus on accessing more raw intelligence appeared to be more of a priority under the short tenure of Michael Flynn, who was ousted as national security adviser after less than one month on the job. He was replaced by H.R. McMaster, an Army lieutenant general who was expected to exert more control over the NSC but has found himself struggling to overcome skepticism among Flynn holdovers who have the ear of Bannon.


----------------
Feb 8


In an interview, Flynn denies that he discussed sanctions with Kislyak:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/national-security-adviser-flynn-discussed-sanctions-with-russian-ambassador-despite-denials-officials-say/2017/02/09/f85b29d6-ee11-11e6-b4ff-ac2cf509efe5_story.html
	Flynn on Wednesday denied that he had discussed sanctions with Kislyak. Asked in an interview whether he had ever done so, he twice said, “No.” 


Yates says publicly that she warned the White House that Flynn could be blackmailed by the Russians:

http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/yates-warned-white-house-flynn-blackmailed/



----------------
Feb 9th


Jeff Sessions is sworn-in as attorney general.


The Washington Post reports that Flynn discussed the U.S. sanctions against Russia with Kislyak, and that some senior U.S. officials believed his conduct was inappropriate and potentially illegal:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/national-security-adviser-flynn-discussed-sanctions-with-russian-ambassador-despite-denials-officials-say/2017/02/09/f85b29d6-ee11-11e6-b4ff-ac2cf509efe5_story.html


According to VP Pence's press secretary, Pence learned that Flynn mislead him the night of Feb 9th:

http://www.npr.org/2017/02/15/515441758/white-house-appears-to-keep-pence-out-of-the-loop-on-flynn
	LOTTER: What I would tell you is that the vice president became aware of incomplete information that he'd received on February 9, last Thursday night, based on media accounts. He did an inquiry based on those media accounts.


----------------
Feb 10th


Flynn privately speaks to Pence about lying to him about his calls with Kislyak:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/flynn-holds-call-with-pence-amid-calls-for-probes-of-contacts-with-russian-ambassador/2017/02/10/f8fb83a0-efe1-11e6-9973-c5efb7ccfb0d_story.html


Speaking to reporters, Trump implies he is unaware that Flynn spoke about sanctions with Kislyak:

www.cnn.com/2017/02/10/politics/flynn-russia-us-sanctions-reports/
	President Donald Trump said Friday afternoon he was unaware of reports that his national security adviser, Michael Flynn, may have spoken about sanctions with the Russian ambassador before the inauguration.
	Trump, speaking to reporters aboard Air Force One, said he will "look into that."


A top deputy to Flynn has his security clearance request denied by the CIA:

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/02/mike-flynn-nsa-aide-trump-234923


----------------
Feb 13th


1:00PM: Amid controversy surrounding Flynn lying about discussing sanctions with Kislyak, White House counselor Kellyanne Conway says Trump has "full confidence" in Flynn:

http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/kellyanne-conway-michael-flynn-president-trump-full-confidence


The Washington Post reports that Yates and the DOJ warned the White House about Flynn:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/justice-department-warned-white-house-that-flynn-could-be-vulnerable-to-russian-blackmail-officials-say/2017/02/13/fc5dab88-f228-11e6-8d72-263470bf0401_story.html


The night of Feb 13th, Flynn resigns, saying "I inadvertently briefed the Vice President Elect and others with incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the Russian Ambassador. I have sincerely apologized to the President and the Vice President, and they have accepted my apology."

https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/02/13/us/politics/document-Michael-Flynn-Resignation-Letter.html


----------------
Feb 14th


WH Press Secretary Sean Spicer says Trump fired Flynn because of "eroding trust" and because Flynn lied to the Vice President. According to Spicer, White House Counsel McGahn briefed the President and some of his senior advisors on January 26th, "immediately after the Department of Justice notified the White House Counsel of the situation." Spicer also says McGahn reviewed materials related to Flynn's conduct:


https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/02/14/press-briefing-press-secretary-sean-spicer-2142017-12
	MR. SPICER:  I'm not going to get into the specifics.  What I will tell you is, on multiple occasions they had an exhaustive and extensive questioning of General Flynn on several occasions based on information that was provided to them, or materials that were provided to them to review.  I'm not going to get into the details of that, but I will just say that there was an exhaustive review.


And that President Trump was told about Flynn discussing sanctions with Kislyak:

https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/02/14/press-briefing-press-secretary-sean-spicer-2142017-12
	 Q    Sean, can you just clarify, because I got a little turned around -- did President Trump, or President-elect Trump at the time, know of General Flynn’s discussion of the sanctions while he was NSC-designate?  And if not, when did he finally learn about them?  And if so, why was he okay with that?

	MR. SPICER:  So, no, he was not aware, as he’s not back-briefed on every conversation that his national security team has or other staffers.  They were performing their duties, as other people were in terms of getting up to speed, conveying with counterparts and previous members of their team.  

	That being said, when he was made aware of it, once the White House Counsel briefed him on concerns the Department of Justice had -- and at that point, as I mentioned, what he asked and what he believed at the time and was confirmed by White House Counsel was that there was no legal issue here. 


Spicer declined to confirm, however, that anybody in the White House had read transcripts of Flynn's calls with Kislyak, and declined to release any transcripts of the calls:

https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/02/14/press-briefing-press-secretary-sean-spicer-2142017-12
  	Q    I know you just forgot.  I have a question, but I want you to clarify something you just said to John.  Are you saying that no one has read the transcripts of the calls, or you just don’t want to tell us whether they -- 

	MR. SPICER:  I said that I'm not going to comment on it.

	... Q    Sean, you’ve been asked a couple times about these transcripts of calls.  Will the White House declassify those and release them?

	MR. SPICER:  Looks, it is inappropriate for me to comment on those at this time.  Right now, the focus is on some of the evolving issues that were going around the globe, as you know.

	Q    Will you be open to it?

	MR. SPICER:  Let me answer the question.  It is not an issue that has come up.  I think the President right now is focused on replacing his national security advisor, making sure that he’s presented with the best possible information to make these key decisions.


Some of Spicer's statements conflict with the testimony of Sally Yates:


https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/02/14/press-briefing-press-secretary-sean-spicer-2142017-12
	MR. SPICER: ...The evolving and eroding level of trust as a result of this situation and a series of other questionable instances is what led the President to ask for General Flynn’s resignation.  Immediately after the Department of Justice notified the White House Counsel of the situation, the White House Counsel briefed the President and a small group of senior advisors.  The White House Counsel reviewed and determined that there is not a legal issue, but rather a trust issue.

	...Q    And why would the President -- if he was notified 17 days ago that Flynn had misled the Vice President, other officials here, and that he was a potential threat to blackmail by the Russians, why would he be kept on for almost three weeks?

	MR. SPICER:  Well, that’s not -- that assumes a lot of things that are not true.  The President was informed of this.  He asked the White House Counsel to review the situation.  The first matter was whether there was a legal issue.  We had to review whether there was a legal issue, which the White House Counsel concluded there was not, as I stated in my comments.  This was an act of trust.  Whether or not he actually misled the Vice President was the issue, and that was ultimately what led to the President asking for and accepting the resignation of General Flynn.  That’s it, pure and simple.  It was a matter of trust.  


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	FEINSTEIN: So what's the point that you were trying to make -- yes or no will be fine -- that General Flynn had seriously compromised the security of the United States, and possibly the government, by what he had done, whatever that was?

	YATES: Well, our point was -- is that logic would tell you that you don't want the national security adviser to be in a position where the Russians have leverage over him. Now, in terms of what impact that may have or could have had, I can't speak to that, but we knew that was not a good situation, which is why we wanted to let the White House know about it.


https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/02/14/press-briefing-press-secretary-sean-spicer-2142017-12
	MR. SPICER:  No, there is -- I can't say it clearly enough.  There was nothing in what General Flynn did, in terms of conducting himself, that was an issue.  What it came down to, plain and simple, was him misleading the Vice President and others, and not having a firm grasp on his recollection of that.  That's it.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: ...And we then walked through with Mr. McGahn essentially why we were telling them about this and the first thing we did was to explain to Mr. McGahn that the underlying conduct that General Flynn had engaged in was problematic in and of itself.

	...that created a compromise situation, a situation where the national security adviser essentially could be blackmailed by the Russians. Finally, we told them that we were giving them all of this information so that they could take action, the action that they deemed appropriate.


https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/02/14/press-briefing-press-secretary-sean-spicer-2142017-12
	Q    Why not dismiss the General on January 27th?  Why, if the question was of trust, and immediately you have on the 15th, he's on "Face the Nation" saying that -- the Vice President on "Face the Nation" saying that this is what General Flynn told me, and then January 26th you hear the opposite -- why not immediately act?  Why wait another two and a half weeks?

	MR. SPICER:  I don’t understand how that's a due process.  Because what the -- the Attorney General didn’t come -- the Acting Attorney General -- come in and say that there was an issue.  She said, we wanted to give you a head's up that there may be information, okay?


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	KLOBUCHAR: ...And one of the White House officials has described the notification that you provided warning them of this as a heads up. How would you describe a heads-up?

	YATES: Well at the risk of trying to characterize. I mean we were there to tell the White House about something we were very concerned about and emphasized to them repeatedly. It was so they could take action.


https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/02/14/press-briefing-press-secretary-sean-spicer-2142017-12
	MR. SPICER:  ...She could not confirm there was an investigation. And so it would be unbelievably short-sighted and wrong to go in and dismiss someone immediately. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: ...And he said that they were concerned that taking action might interfere with the FBI investigation. And we told him, both the senior career official and I, that he should not be concerned with it, that General Flynn had been interviewed, that their action would not interfere with any investigation and in fact, I remember specifically saying, you know it wouldn't really be fair of us to tell you this and then expect you to sit on your hands.


----------------
Feb 20


H. R. McMaster is sworn-in as National Security Advisor to replace Trump. Pence played a role in selecting McMaster:

http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-names-lt-gen-hr-mcmaster-national-security/story?id=45617774


President Trump reportedly promises McMaster "total and complete say over the makeup of the NSC and all of the components of the NSC":

http://www.voanews.com/a/pence-disappointed-he-was-misled-by-nsc-adviser-flynn/3732197.html


----------------
March 1


McMaster begins undoing Flynn's changes to the NSC:

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/03/mcmaster-national-security-council-staff-changes-235579
	President Donald Trump’s new national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, is taking steps to streamline the National Security Council — starting by eliminating positions created by his short-lived predecessor Michael Flynn, according to two people familiar with the moves.

	...“McMaster took a look at them and thought he didn’t need the extra layer,” the White House aide said of the two positions. “He wanted to go back to the way it had been prior.”


----------------
March 2


After a controversy surrounding misstatements about his conversations with Russian Ambassador Kislyak, Attorney General Jeff Sessions recuses himself from all 2016-campaign related inquiries:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/top-gop-lawmaker-calls-on-sessions-to-recuse-himself-from-russia-investigation/2017/03/02/148c07ac-ff46-11e6-8ebe-6e0dbe4f2bca_story.html


Because Sally Yates was fired, Dana Boente becomes acting Attorney General for such inquiries until Deputy AG Rod Rosenstein is sworn-in.


----------------
March 4


On Twitter, Trump accuses former President Obama of illegally wiretapping him during the 2016 election:


http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/article/2017/mar/21/timeline-donald-trumps-false-wiretapping-charge/

	
Around this time, Senior Intelligence Director Ezra Cohen-Watnick reportedly begins reviewing classified intercepts of foreign official's communications:

https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/30/us/politics/devin-nunes-intelligence-reports.html
    The officials who detailed the newly disclosed White House role said that this month, shortly after Mr. Trump claimed on Twitter that he was wiretapped during the campaign on the orders of President Barack Obama, Mr. Cohen-Watnick began reviewing highly classified reports detailing the intercepted communications of foreign officials.


----------------
March 13


Trump overrules a decision by McMaster to move Cohen-Watnick from his post as Senior Intelligence Director:

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/03/trump-national-security-mcmaster-overrule-236065
	President Donald Trump has overruled a decision by his national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, to sideline a key intelligence operative who fell out of favor with some at the Central Intelligence Agency, two sources told POLITICO.

	On Friday, McMaster told the National Security Council’s senior director for intelligence programs, Ezra Cohen-Watnick, that he would be moved to another position in the organization.

	The conversation followed weeks of pressure from career officials at the CIA who had expressed reservations about the 30-year-old intelligence operative and pushed for his ouster.

	But Cohen-Watnick appealed McMaster’s decision to two influential allies with whom he had forged a relationship while working on Trump’s transition team — White House advisers Steve Bannon and Jared Kushner. They brought the matter to Trump on Sunday, and the president agreed that Cohen-Watnick should remain as the NSC’s intelligence director, according to two people with knowledge of the episode. 


In the weeks leading up to the President's decision, the CIA had concerns about Cohen-Watnick and thought he shouldn't be Senior Intelligence Director:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/tension-between-cia-and-trump-white-house-persists-over-personnel-and-policy/2017/03/15/0694bf76-09b5-11e7-b77c-0047d15a24e0_story.html
	McMaster had been told by CIA Director Mike Pompeo that some intelligence officials had problems with Cohen-Watnick and didn’t think he was up to the job, according to U.S. officials familiar with the matter. The intelligence director provides White House interface with the intelligence community and is a filter for information to the president.


Shortly after Trump intervened to keep him on, a CIA operative working under Cohen-Watnick was fired from the NSC:

 https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/three-white-house-officials-tied-to-files-shared-with-house-intelligence-chairman/2017/03/30/de4b8c30-1589-11e7-9e4f-09aa75d3ec57_story.html
    Cohen consulted Kushner and Bannon, Trump’s chief White House strategist. After Kushner and Bannon spoke with Trump over the March 11-12 weekend, Cohen was back in place.

    Within days, a CIA detailee to the NSC working under Cohen was told without explanation to clear out his desk and return to the agency. The agent, a former and future covert operative whose name is being withheld by The Washington Post at the request of the CIA, was on a standard two-year rotation to the White House.


----------------
March 14


The House Intelligence Committee invites Yates to testify on her communications with the White House about Flynn:


https://apps.washingtonpost.com/g/documents/national/read-the-letters-detailing-how-sally-yates-was-blocked-from-testifying-on-russia/2390/


----------------
March 21


House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes visits the White House to review intelligence showing Trump campaign associates were caught in surveillance of foreign targets. Flynn hires Cohen-Watnick and John Eisenberg reportedly helped collect and deliver the intelligence to Nunes:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/three-white-house-officials-tied-to-files-shared-with-house-intelligence-chairman/2017/03/30/de4b8c30-1589-11e7-9e4f-09aa75d3ec57_story.html
	Nunes and White House press secretary Sean Spicer have repeatedly refused to answer questions about the identities of those involved in unearthing the intelligence reports or arranging for Nunes to review them at the White House complex — although Nunes at one point said his source was not a member of the White House staff.

	That assertion is under new scrutiny after U.S. officials confirmed that three senior officials at the National Security Council — considered part of the White House — played roles in the collection and handling of information shared with Nunes.

	...The officials said that the classified files were gathered by Cohen-Watnick, the senior director for intelligence at the National Security Council.

	After assembling reports that showed that Trump campaign officials were mentioned or inadvertently monitored by U.S. spy agencies targeting foreign individuals, Cohen-Watnick took the matter to the top lawyer for the National Security Council, John Eisenberg.

	The third White House official involved was identified as Michael Ellis, a lawyer who previously worked with Nunes on the House Intelligence Committee but joined the Trump administration as an attorney who reports to Eisenberg. Ellis and Eisenberg report to the White House counsel, Donald McGahn.


White House Counsel Don McGahn continued to keep John Eisenberg under his employment.


----------------
March 22


Chairman Nunes attempts to use the intelligence delivered by Cohen-Watnick and Eiesenberg to validate Trump's bogus wiretapping claims. Without telling his fellow Committee members, Nunes journeys to the White House to brief President Trump of his findings:


http://thehill.com/policy/national-security/326793-devin-nunes-trump-and-the-russia-probe-a-timeline
	Wednesday midday, March 22

	Nunes holds a hastily scheduled solo press appearance — billed as related to the committee’s Russia investigation — and tells reporters that “on numerous occasions, the intelligence community incidentally collected information about U.S. citizens involved in the Trump transition” including “details about people associated with the incoming administration… with little apparent foreign intelligence value.”

	Those details had nothing to do with Russia or the Russia investigation and were “widely disseminated in intelligence community reporting.”

	“I have confirmed that additional names of Trump transition team members were unmasked,” Nunes says.

	Nunes reiterates that he has seen no evidence that Trump was wiretapped. 

	Wednesday afternoon, March 22

	Nunes heads back to the White House to brief President Trump.

	In a second press availability, he indicates that the information he saw may have been derived from Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) warrants — which are classified, raising speculation that Nunes may have revealed classified information at the podium.

	He says that he had a “duty” to tell the president.

	President Trump says he feels “somewhat” vindicated by Nunes’s disclosure, after weeks of lawmakers and intelligence officials publicly disavowing his claim he was “wiretapped.”


----------------
March 23


The Trump Administration tries to Block Yates from testifying at the House Intelligence Committee, saying Yates' communications with the White House are probably covered by presidential communications privilege.":

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/trump-administration-sought-to-block-sally-yates-from-testifying-to-congress-on-russia/2017/03/28/82b73e18-13b4-11e7-9e4f-09aa75d3ec57_story.html


----------------
March 24


Yates' lawyer writes to McGahn, saying Yates' communications with the White House are not privileged since the White House officials already spoke on them publicly, and that Yates' will testify unless McGahn gets back to them. The same day, the chair of the House Intelligence Committee Devin Nunes cancelled Yates' testimony:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/trump-administration-sought-to-block-sally-yates-from-testifying-to-congress-on-russia/2017/03/28/82b73e18-13b4-11e7-9e4f-09aa75d3ec57_story.html


----------------
March 29


Chairman Nunes cancels all House Intelligence Committee hearings and stalls the House Intelligence Committee--and Yates' hearing--indefinitely:

http://www.cnn.com/2017/03/28/politics/house-intelligence-committee-devin-nunes/
	Washington (CNN)The Trump administration is refusing to provide details Tuesday to who signed House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes into offices on White House grounds, as the House investigation into Russia's interference in the US elections is stalled, the victim of a partisan showdown.
All meetings of the House Russia investigators were canceled this week shortly before the top Democrat, Rep. Adam Schiff, said Nunes must recuse himself in order for the investigation to continue.

	Schiff also said Tuesday that he wants Republicans to agree to reschedule a pair of hearings that had been set for today -- including one where former acting Attorney General Sally Yates was expected to testify about communications between former Trump National Security Adviser Michael Flynn and Russian ambassador to the US Sergey Kislyak -- before agreeing to move forward with their investigation. 

	"We certainly welcome the director coming back at any time, but not as a substitute for the open hearing that he agreed to," Schiff told reporters Tuesday.
Nunes, however, told CNN Tuesday morning he was "moving forward" with the investigation and said he won't recuse himself.
"It moves forward just like it was before," Nunes told reporters. 


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/03/devin-nunes-democrats-russia-investigation-236637
	"The Minority submitted a list of witnesses to the Majority yesterday. This list represents only the first of many witnesses we believe should be called to testify,” the spokesman said. “Additionally, the Minority proposed days ago that two hearings be scheduled for next week — both the closed hearing with [James] Comey and [Mike] Rogers requested by the Majority and the open hearing with Yates, Clapper and Brennan that had been previously agreed to by both parties and cancelled abruptly and unilaterally by the Chair. We have yet to receive a response."

	Adding to Nunes’ woes, moderate Republican Rep. Charlie Dent on Wednesday questioned whether the House Intelligence Committee’s probe could reasonably go forward. Dent called the current state of the House’s investigation “unfortunate.”

	...Critics are raising concerns that Nunes is working with the White House to protect the president, which Nunes has denied. In particular, Schiff has criticized Nunes for canceling the public hearing that was scheduled to occur Tuesday and feature the former Obama officials.

	“Sally Yates is willing to testify, WH says they want her to testify, public wants to hear from her, Brennan and Clapper...what's the holdup?” Schiff tweeted on Wednesday.


----------------
April 6


After a period of controversy, Chairman Nunes recuses himself from the House Russia probe:

http://www.cnbc.com/2017/04/06/house-intelligence-chairman-devin-nunes-will-temporarily-step-away-from-russia-probe-reports-say.html


----------------
April 7

Congress goes on recess for two weeks


----------------
May 8


Sally Yates finally gives her testimony, before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/


----------------
May 9


President Trump fires the Director of the FBI


----------------
May 16


Yates gives an interview with Anderson Cooper:


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pOy1P_grY-8


http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/16/politics/sally-yates-anderson-cooper-cnntv/
	Former acting Attorney General Sally Yates on Tuesday shot down the White House's efforts to downplay the severity of her warnings about former national security adviser Michael Flynn.

	"There was nothing casual about this," Yates said in an interview with CNN's Anderson Cooper, reacting to White House press secretary Sean Spicer's assertion that her warning about Flynn's interactions with Russian representatives was a "heads up."
"I absolutely did not use the term heads up," Yates told Cooper. "I called (White House counsel) Don McGahn and told him I had a very sensitive matter I need to discuss with him that day in person." 

	...During her testimony she said that, at the end of January, after reading the details of a Flynn interview with the FBI, she had called McGahn and warned him that Trump's national security adviser could easily become a blackmail target for Russians based on the answers Flynn gave to the FBI.

	Responding to a question from Cooper on whether she agreed with the White House line that Flynn was dismissed over a "trust issue" rather than a legal one, she said, "I don't know how the White House reached the conclusion that there was no legal issue. It certainly wasn't from my discussion with them." 

http://www.businessinsider.com/sally-yates-interview-michael-flynn-russia-trump-2017-5
	 Former acting Attorney General Sally Yates attempted to explain in one sentence the seriousness of her warnings about former national security adviser Michael Flynn.

	"I'm not sure how much more of a siren you have to sound," Yates said in a CNN interview with Anderson Cooper that aired Tuesday night.

	 Yates told Cooper she gave the White House information about Flynn so it could "act" and avoid being compromised at the hands of the Kremlin.

	It was "absolutely" a national security issue, Yates said. 



----------------


All this leaves a lot of questions:

What did Flynn feel he had to call Kislyak multiple times to discuss U.S. sanctions the day they were enacted?

Did Russian intelligence use their blackmail leverage over Flynn? What did they do with it?

If President Trump knew Flynn was a national security risk, why did he wait 18 days to fire him?

Would President Trump have fired Flynn if the news reports that Flynn discussed sanctions with Kislyak weren't published?

If President Trump knew Flynn lied to Vice President Pence on Janurary 26th, how come Pence had to learn about it from the media on February 9th? 

Why did Trump announce his travel ban a few hours after Flynn's interview with the FBI on January 24th?

Why did President Trump hold-off on his travel ban until right after Yates' invited McGahn to view evidence of Flynn's conduct on January 27th?

Why didn't President Trump confer with Yates and other White House officials ahead of time about his travel ban?

Why, while the whole world was protesting Trump's travel ban for being a thinly-veiled Muslin ban, did a Trump surrogate tell Fox News on January 29th that President Trump intended his travel ban to be a Muslim ban, even though this would make his executive order unconstitutional?

Did President Trump know this would force Yates to refuse to defend his executive order?

Did President Trump intend for Yates to be "out of the way" in case Sessions had to recuse himself before Deputy AG Rosenstein was sworn-in? Why did he specifically want Boente as acting AG?

Why didn't McGahn get back to Yates to view the evidence of Flynn's conduct on January 30th? Did McGahn ever review the evidence?

Why wouldn't Press Secretary Spicer confirm anybody had seen transcripts of Flynn's phone calls with Kislyak? Why did he decline to release them?

Why did Flynn hand-pick NSC deputies to be a "barrier" between NSC professional staff and top White House officials, even though this caused alarm in the White House?

Why did Flynn's NSC have a reputation for requesting raw intelligence for the President's daily briefings?

Why, reportedly, were Flynn's NSC hires almost exclusively responsible for leaking "evidence" of President Trump's wiretapping claims to Chairman Nunes?

Why did McGahn keep on Flynn hire John Eisenberg after his role in the Nunes controversy, especially if he knew Flynn was compromised?

What did McGahn say to President Trump and other officials about Flynn's conduct?

If President Trump knew Flynn was compromised, Why did he break his promise to McMaster and keep Flynn hire Ezra Cohen-Watnick on the NSC, even after the CIA and McMaster expressed concerns about him?

Why did Spicer's account of Flynn's conduct differ so substantially from Yates' testimony?

Why did the Trump Administration try to block Yates' testimony?

Why did Chairman Nunes cancel Yates' hearing after her lawyer informed McGahn that she planned to testify?

Why did Nunes stall the House Intelligence Committee right up until the April Congressional recess?

Could the NSD official who accompanied Yates' to her meetings with McGahn answer any of these questions?Who else?

What is the damage from all this? Did any sensitive intelligence get leaked? Are any lives of Americans or of our allies at risk?


----------------


One more thing: Yates' and Clapper's answers here are worth reading:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	GRASSLEY: Do you two believe that the government's response, so far, has been enough to deter future attacks of this kind? And if not, what else would you think we should be doing?

	Miss Yates, would you start out, please?

	YATES: I think they're coming back, and we have to do a whole lot more, both to harden our election systems, our state election systems, to ensure that folks out there know when they're looking at news feeds, that it may not be real news that they're reading.

	I think that we have to do more to deter the Russians, and it wouldn't hurt to prosecute a few folks, but I don't think we should kid ourselves, that we'll be able to prosecute our way out of this problem.

	GRASSLEY: OK, Mr. Clapper.

	CLAPPER: Well, as much as I love Congressional Hearings, I think there is a useful purpose served. Because I think the most important thing that needs to be done here, is educate the electorate as to what the Russians' objective is, and the tactics and techniques, and procedures that they've employed and will continue to employ, and I predict it will be against all the parties.

	And so, I think education of the public is the most important thing we can do in this hearing, grudgingly though, I admit it, serves that purpose to the extent that this can be shared openly.


I think they're right--the Okhrana has a lot of agents (estimated tens of thousands in this U.S.from Detention Plan C, the Mitrokhin archives, and reading the news with a critical eye) and there's no way the U.S. could prosecute them all any time soon, although I think prosecuting the ones in positions of power is important (which might not happen until after the Government resigns).

But what we need now more than ever is for the American public to understand what's going on and how they can defend themselves. So a special prosecutor, while a good thing, is not what's going to fix all of our problems. And an independent counsel is only a good thing if that counsel is independent, which it looks like might not be the case:

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/05/17/mueller-clients-special-prosecutor-238532
	Robert Mueller could face one significant issue with his appointment as special counsel to lead the Justice Department's investigation into ties between Russia and Donald Trump's presidential campaign: The law firm he's worked at since 2014 has represented several prominent players in Trump's bid for the White House.

	Former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, Trump's daughter Ivanka and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, are all clients of WilmerHale, the firm Mueller is leaving to assume the position of special prosecutor overseeing the high-profile Russia election probe.

	One prominent expert on government ethics rules said Wednesday that lawyers entering federal service would normally be required to recuse themselves from decisions regarding individuals who were represented by the new official's former firm.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2017/live-updates/trump-white-house/trump-comey-and-russia-how-key-washington-players-are-reacting/brothers-in-arms-the-long-friendship-between-mueller-and-comey/
	They’ve been described as law enforcement twins and “brothers in arms.”

    	#COMEY & #Mueller were brothers in arms in famous 2004 standoff over domestic surveillance. Cagey choice by DAG Rosenstein.

    	— Jim Sciutto (@jimsciutto) May 17, 2017

	Once again, James Comey and Robert Mueller — two respected FBI veterans — have found themselves sharing the same high-profile headlines.

	The two men’s working relationship can be traced back to at least December of 2003, when Comey joined Mueller in Washington after he became John Ashcroft’s deputy attorney general, according to a 2013 Washingtonian article about the two men’s long0standing relationship.

	“He and Mueller spent many hours together, developing a close partnership — and watching together the disarray in the government over how to respond to the unfolding war on terror,” Washingtonian notes. “They shared a horror at the poor quality information infiltrating the upper reaches of government.”

	...The two men’s working relationship can be traced back to at least December of 2003, when Comey joined Mueller in Washington after he became John Ashcroft’s deputy attorney general, according to a 2013 Washingtonian article about the two men’s long-standing relationship.


If there are any pro-Americans left in Congress, probably one of the best things they can do for the country is set-up a select committee or independent commission to actually investigate the Okhrana's activities (unlike, say, the House Select Committee on Intelligence). Naturally, the same day Rod Rosenstein (who, knowing the Trump Administration, one should probably assume by default is a Russian spy) appointed Mueller, Congress blocked a vote to create an independent investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2017/05/17/gop-blocks-house-vote-independent-russia-trump-probe/101796632/

Maybe Congress' Russian masters don't want their secrets revealed? Or is it that the Russians rigged the election after all? It might be that this is simply up to us. Learn as much as you can about active measures, read the news with a critical eye, try to catch their spies in the media, figure out what they're up to and why (ask yourself: what's in their interests for them to do? what are their capabilities?), document it, and spread the word. Get on TV and tell people what you found. They put out enough in the media that you can do a decent job I think of figuring out how they work and what they're doing at home. Or even better: team up with other people doing the same thing and meet up once or twice a week. There are already organizations doing this sort of thing like StopFake (http://www.stopfake.org/en/news/), PropOrNot (http://www.propornot.com/p/home.html), or the emCOMP Lab at University of Washington (https://medium.com/hci-design-at-uw/information-wars-a-window-into-the-alternative-media-ecosystem-a1347f32fd8f).

And since you're all reading this: coordinate with each other! I can only email so many people so I guess we can start from here. On that note, here is an email list I forgot to include in my last message, of local state and county GOP and Democrat party members: https://pastebin.com/kxypbuNm  So, most of the people on this list are probably a lot more organized than I am. And also, sorry to all for scraping your emails and sending them to strangers (in my defense the emails I found were publicly available...), but I had to tell somebody, and it ended up being you.
