https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-05-18/robert-mueller-the-special-counsel-who-could-save-trump
	This may end up offering Flynn, whom Trump has defended publicly since firing him, a chance for redemption. So far, much is unclear -- not only whether Flynn is innocent or guilty, but even what law he might have broken. In interviews this week and in Congressional testimony last week, the former deputy attorney general Sally Yates would not say what crime Flynn is alleged to have committed. This did not stop her however from describing in ominous tones the nature of his intercepted conversations last December with Russia's ambassador when he was the incoming national security adviser. She did say that she believed Flynn was compromised and vulnerable to blackmail because he had lied to Vice President Mike Pence about discussing sanctions on that call.

	On this point, Flynn and Trump should welcome a fresh set of eyes. This is because Yates's charge of potential blackmail appears on the surface to be risible. After all, Flynn was a former head of the Defense Intelligence Agency and must have known his calls were being recorded. What's more, we don't yet know whether Flynn was authorized by Trump to discuss sanctions on the calls with the ambassador, Sergey Kislyak. Judging from Trump's campaign promises, this seems likely.

Lake saying it's "risible" that Flynn was vulnerable to blackmail. Seems like they're trying to shift focus onto whether or not what Flynn did was illegal, instead of the blackmail/national security risk, like Spicer was doing?

Goes on to discuss the other scandals surrounding Flynn

------

http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/334414-aclu-trump-refused-to-turn-over-giuliani-travel-ban-memo-by
	The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) on Saturday blasted President Trump for ignoring a court order demand to release a memo drafted under former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani's guidance that outlined a plan to implement a travel ban without making it seem as if it was directly aimed at Muslims.

	A federal judge in Detroit ordered the Trump administration to turn over the memo by May 19, according to reports. The ACLU said Saturday that Trump did not meet the deadline on Friday.

Nikita Vladimirov putting outrage words in the mouth of the ACLU so people ignore this


https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2017-05-11/trump-ordered-to-turn-over-giuliani-memo-in-travel-ban-suit
	The Trump Administration was ordered by a federal judge to disclose a memo drafted under the guidance of former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani that allegedly served as an outline to make the president’s travel ban look like it wasn’t aimed at Muslims.

	While running for president, Donald Trump asked Giuliani to form a commission that would help draft a “Muslim ban” to “show [him] the right way to do it legally" after his initial proposal drew widespread public condemnation, according to a court filing by the Arab American Civil Rights League. The commission then recommended that “nationality be used as a proxy for religion,” the group said in the filing.

	U.S. District Judge Victoria Roberts in Detroit on Thursday directed the president to produce the document by May 19.


------

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/05/18/michael-flynn-not-cooperating-investigation-238554

Could a Flynn testimony interfere with the FBI investigation?

I guess depends
