https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pGphLshEeLE

24:39

Claims Heritage foundation and Federalist society picked Gorsuch
(but they are full of Russian spies...)


1:10:04
Rogers promsing delivering data

1:11:08
Rogers stand by his ("the report") assessment as issued--no change in confidence.

Rogers mentions "need to know" in who can see the classified report.

1:16
Comey: that includes investigating Trump-Russia links, and coordination, and "as with any counter-intelligence investigation," will include an assessment of criminal activity.

Comey briefed Congress in detail about investigation, not typical

1:21:41

Rogers: If I spent any time worrying about unsource media reporting I'd never get any work done

1:26:00

Rooney cares about incidential collection, wants Rogers to inform people how it works.

1:33

Rooney wants to know if people like COmey, AG can unmask Flynn's identity.

1:35:31

Rooney trying to argue Flynn's leak hurt national security (seriously?)

Rooney: Can you think of any reason why somebody would want to leak and unmask a private citizen?

"sacred trust intelligence committee has with the people"

Rooney indicates he wants the leaker prosecuted.


1:38:00

Rooney keeps saying the Flynn leak will hurt everybody because it will make it harder to reauthorize a foreign spying law

1:43

Gowdy seems to only care about the Flynn leak?

Gowdy is trying to rub it in that the leaks are immoral: "who's name I will not use"

------

1:56

Jim Himes asks about vote hacking

2:04:43

Gowdy wants to investigate to see who unmasked Flynn's name

2:06:44

Gowdy emphasizes: does the WH have the ability to unmask?

Comey: they can request, but can't actually unmask.

Gowdy asks specifically about Director Clapper and Director Brennan, NSA Susan Rice, Ben Rhodes, Loretta Lynch, Sally Yates

2:09:34
Gowdy asks (dramaticaly): did you breif Obama on any calls with Micheal Flynn

Gowdy talking about motive of leaking Flynn's names

2:12:09

Comey says there is wrong information from leaks in newspapers, but don't want to correct them because them reveals secret info and such

2:13:24

Gowdy wants to pressure Comey into hurrying up investigatino of Flynn leaks, get him to confirm investigation



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cm0DxSBjPXE

1:33:55

Schiff talking about media reports of Roger Stone

stopped at 1:35:49

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/

SCHIFF: And are you aware that it was only days later that WikiLeaks released the Podesta e-mails?

Schiff seems to be generally trying to make the circumstantial evidence around the Trump-Russia connections more public

...


HIMES: First, Director Comey, can you tell me what the Foreign Agents Registration Act is?

himes talking about FARA, trying to say manafort didn't register as a foreign agent. Comey can't comment.

...

Mr. Comey, is it fair to say that the line that exists in the United States between government officers and government officials, is blurred in Russia? That there may be oligarchs or other individuals who on the surface appear to be private citizens, but who have connections to this close-knit cabal who might be agents of influence or might be doing the Kremlin's bidding in contact with others?

COMEY: That's fair to say and one of our counterintelligence missions is to try to understand who are those people and are they acting on behalf of the Russian government, those Russian citizens.

HIMES: Is it generally true that there is a category of Russian oligarchs that are likely part of this close-knit cabal?

COMEY: In a general sense.

HIMES: And if they go way back with Vladimir Putin, do the chances increase that they might be connected with the KGB, as is asserted by Professor Dawisha?

COMEY: The longevity of the association can be a consideration.

HIMES: And the KGB was the Russian intelligence service under the Soviet Union, right?

COMEY: Correct, former...

HIMES: And the Ukraine was part of the Soviet Union?

Himes establishing connection between KGB and Russian oligarchs (sounds like what has been said by the Mitrokhin archives and Golitsy?)

...


SEWELL: Am I right that in the -- that in the Russian playbook -- that it's in the Russian playbook to use diplomats and business people and Russian intelligence officers, whether declared or not to, collect intelligence on influential Americans for the purpose of affecting U.S. policy?

COMEY: I can answer as a general matter. Nation states that are adversaries of United States use traditional intelligence officers, sometimes used intelligence officers operating under diplomatic cover, use people we call co-opties (ph), maybe a private citizens, students, academics, business people, all manner of human beings can be used in a -- in an intelligence collection operation. But I'm not gonna talk about the particular.

Comey talking about how all sorts of people can be spies, won't talk about specifics.

...

Swell points out it's weird that Flynn was in contact with Kislyak, the Russian spy.

...

COMEY: People bring us information about what they think is improper unlawful activity of any kind, we will evaluate it. Not just in -- not just in this context. Folks send us stuff all the time. They should keep going that.

...

COMEY: I'm not prepared to comment about the particular campaigns but the Russians in general are always trying to understand who the future leaders might be and what levers of influence there might be on them.

Comey talking about Russian methods, influence future leaders.

...

CONAWAY: And then finally, Admiral Rogers, that assessment went on to say that president Putin and the Russian government aspired to help president -- I guess he would have been candidate Trump at the time -- but president-elect Trump's election chances when possible by discrediting Secretary Clinton. You had a lower...

ROGERS: Confidence level.

CONAWAY: ... confidence level. Is that still the case?

ROGERS: Yes, sir.

...

CONAWAY: OK. The -- the paragraph that gives me a little concern there, in terms of just the timing of when all of that occurred because I'm not sure if we went back and got that exact same January assessment six months earlier, it would've looked the same. Because, you say, when we further assessed Putin and the Russian government developed a clear preference for President-elect Trump.

Any idea when that clear preference in the analysis, when did that get into the lexicon of whether you talk back and forth among yourselves on a -- on a classified basis?

COMEY: I don't know for sure, but I think that was a fairly easy judgment for the community. He -- Putin hated Secretary Clinton so much, that the flipside of that coin was he had a clear preference for the person running against the person he hated so much.

CONAWAY: Yeah and that and that my work on Saturday afternoon when the -- my wife's Red Raiders are playing the Texas Longhorns. She really likes the Red Raiders. But all the rest of the time, I mean the logic is that because he really didn't like president -- the Candidate Clinton, that he automatically liked Trump. That assessment's based on what?

COMEY: Well, it's based on more than that. But part of it is and we're not getting into the details of it here, but part of it is the logic. Whoever the Red Raiders are playing, you want the Red Raiders to win, by definition, you want their opponent to lose.


Comey saying part of Putin's preference for Trump was that he hated Clinton, and "there's more than that."

Is this a misleading way to frame the whole thing? Clinton appears to have been (and currently is?) heavily influenced by Russian spies and is useful for detroying faith in the government and democracy.

Seems like Putin wanted the election be Clinton vs. Trump, got his way, and especially wanted Trump to win. You get a different picture of the whole thing framed that way.

Also, did they want Clinton to be Trump's opponent specifically to make it easier to instlal Trump? Could have been motivated by that or by undermining faith in democracy, or both--either works.

What was Russia's involvement in Benghazi? maybe used it to promote political dysfunction, denigrate Clinton in a polarized way. But did they want it to bring her down? If Rogers is a Russian spy, letting Clinton off the hook could have been on purpose.

And what about spies on Obama's DOJ? Lynch was tight with Jarrett for example. They might have wanted Clinton to be let off the hook so she could be politically damaged but still run against Trump.

So if this is true, saying they were motivated mostly by hating Clinton sounds dubious, especially for a massive operation. Behngazi and the email scandal could have been part of active measures to prepare her for installing Trump.

A lot of their propaganda was centered around her, and it seems like they had a lot of dirt on her and spies close to her. So you'd think they'd want to keep her around and get her into the general election.

...

COMEY: It hadn't been written yet. I don't know. This is the peril of trying to comment on newspaper articles that report to report classified information. I can't say much about them, they're often wrong.

So much for leaks, huh?

...

CONAWAY: When somebody says I'm talking to a reporter, I'm declassifying secret information, you can't tell -- the reporter can't tell who it is because, as Mr. Gowdy was saying earlier, speaking on condition of anonymity. That really should be interpreted because I'm breaking the law and I don't want to be ousted. It that a fair statement?

COMEY: Sometimes. I think there are other motives behind people requesting anonymity but that can be one of them.

...

SCHIFF: Would they have a preference for a candidate who expressed open admiration for Putin?

COMEY: Can I help you reformulate the question? Mr. Putin would like people who like him.

SCHIFF: Would they have a preference for a candidate who encouraged Brexit and other departures from Europe? Would they like to see more Brexits?

COMEY: Yes.


Schiff knows what's going on and is trying to make the point that it would be pretty clear that the Russians would prefer Trump.

COMEY: In our joint report, we recount that the Russians -- that President Putin has expressed a preference for business leaders in leading other governments and mentions Gerhard Schroder and -- I'm going to forget one. Berlusconi because he believes they're people that are more open to negotiation, easier to deal with.

Comey says Putin prefers business leaders because they are "easier to deal with."

...

SEWELL: Not only did Mr. Flynn not remember talking to the Russian ambassador and not only did he not remember what they talked about, he also appeared to have lied to Vice President-elect Mike Pence all about it.

Sewell wants to know what's up with Flynn reportedly lying to the FBI.

Points out look at all this stuff that makes him look Criminal.

...

Mr. Comey and Mr. Rogers, you both said that the Russians had -- they favored Donald Trump, the selection. And you made that change, from the beginning of December it was not that they were trying to help Donald Trump, but that changed by early January. Mr. Conaway talked about that. Do -- do Russians..

COMEY: I don't -- I don't agree with that. I want to make sure I didn't misspeak earlier. We didn't change our view from December to early January. We, the FBI -- and I don't know that anybody else did on the I.C. team.

ROGERS: Me, from my perspective, we didn't have a fully formed view until the end of December...

Interesting, Rogers claims he wasn't sure about Putin's intention to help Trump until December, Comey claims FBI didn't change their view.

...

NUNES: OK. So is it -- do Russians historically prefer Republicans to win over Democrats?

Nunes trying to argue Russians historically prefer Democrats to Republicans

is he being incompetent on purpose?

I remember "reports" claiming that the spy ring the FBI caught were all "bumbling and incompetent," as well as "reports" that Russia's efforts to lobby the U.S.were incompetent (and then they get Exxon to lobby to make it easier to lift sanctions...), also people trying to argue that Dana Rohrabacher and Gabbard were Putin's only spies in Congress, proving that his spies are incompetent.

Maybe part of a Sun Tzu strategy? "appear weak when you are strong." in fake news you see a lot of reports talking about how small Russia's economy is and how they are declining, and so not a threat.

Comey is like: we already talked about this...

...


King wants to silence leakers?


COMEY: And again, Mr. King, I can't comment because I do not ever wanna confirm a classified conversation with a president or president-elect. I can tell you my general experience. It often turns out, there are more people who know about something you expected.

At first, both because there may be more people involved in the thing than you realized, not -- not this particular, but in general. And more people have been told about it or heard about it or staff have been briefed on it. And those echoes are in my experience, what most often ends up being shared with reporters.


Comey says the leakers are getting it all wrong.

...

LOBIONDO: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Director Comey, Admiral Rogers, thank you for your service and thank you for being here. Understanding that what both of you have been saying about the classified nature of the investigation, the classified nature of the topics we're talking about, can you give us any indication of when we, the committee, may in a classified setting know something from you. Would we have ongoing updates?

COMEY: Mr. LoBiondo, I don't know how long the work will take. I can't commit to updates, as you know. I have briefed the committee as a whole on some aspects of our work and I've briefed in great detail the chair and the ranking.

I don't know -- I can't -- I can't predict or commit to updates. But as your work goes on, we're in constant touch with you and we'll do the best we can, but I can't commit to that as I sit here.

LOBIONDO: So as the House Intelligence Committee and the Senate Intelligence Committee are conducting our bipartisan investigations and looking wherever it may lead with individuals or circumstances.

If you, through the FBI investigation, come across a circumstance with an individual or a situation would we be made aware of that under normal course of business?

COMEY: Not necessarily, but it's possible.

Comey wishy-washy on telling Congress everything, maybe LoBiondo wants raw intelligence to sell to the Russians or something.

...

SCHIFF trying to get Flynn's background check clearance form.

...

Carson asking about how Russia's invasion of Ukraine works and if sanctions affect Russia.

Thinks Flynn Manafort, and Page were fall guys and there will be more.

...

SPEIER: Is -- do they intend to do us harm?

ROGERS: They intend to ensure, I believe, that they gain advantage at our expense.

SPEIER: Director Comey?

COMEY: Yes, I wanna be -- harm can have many meetings. They're an adversary and so they wanna resist us, oppose us, undermine us, in lots of different ways.

SPEIER: So one of the terms that we hear often is hybrid warfare. And I'd like to just stand give a short definition of what it is. It blends conventional warfare, irregular warfare and cyber warfare. The aggressor intends to avoid attribution or retribution.

So would you say that Russia engaged in hybrid warfare in its effort to undermine our Democratic process and engage in our electoral process? Director Comey?

COMEY: I don't think I would use the term warfare. I think you'd -- you'd wanna ask experts in the definition of war. They engaged in a multifaceted campaign of active measures to undermine our democracy and hurt one of the candidates and -- and hope to help one of the other candidates.


wtf is Comey talking about? if they intented to "help one of the candidates," then why tie him in with racist propaganda? and why do their active measures continue today? does making people afraid of vaccines help with the election?

fucking stupid answer

actually, it was a stupid question...

"So would you say that Russia engaged in hybrid warfare in its effort to undermine our Democratic process and engage in our electoral process?"

should have asked in general

but still, if they 100% cared only about getting Trump elected, tying him in with racists would hurt such an effort, no?

SPEIER sounds like she knows her shit

concerned about Tillerson, Rosneft with minority Stake in Exxon, Sechin best buddies with Tillerson, probably KGB, 2nd most powerful man in Russia

...

ROS-LEHTINEN

claims Republicans care about Russia, not just leaks.


COMEY: The only thing I'd add is they were unusually loud in their intervention. It's almost as if they didn't care that we knew what they were doing or that they wanted us to see what they were doing. It was very noisy, their intrusions in different institutions.

Comey says russia might have wanted U.S. to know.

I had thought before the wanted the U.S. to call it a cyber-operation when it was actually an espionage operation, or do things like hack the DNC then have an insider leak the emails to wikileaks anyway, so they could discredit the USIC and media.

...

ROS-LEHTINEN: And the loudness to which you refer, perhaps they were doing these kinds of actions previously in other elections but they were not doing it as loudly. What -- why do you think that they did not mind being loud and being found out?

COMEY: I don't know the answer for sure. I think part -- their number one mission is to undermine the credibility of our entire democracy enterprise of this nation and so it might be that they wanted us to help them by telling people what they were doing.

Their loudness, in a way, would be counting on us to amplify it by telling the American people what we saw and freaking people out about how the Russians might be undermining our elections successfully. And so that might have been part of their plan, I don't know for sure.


Referring to the hacks of voter registrations?

a thought: maybe these weren't an effort to trick the American people, but to trick you

go tell everyone "russia wants us to believe our elections are hacked!"

Then Russia goes and actually hacks the election in a much more subtle way, and nobody believes it...

Comey sounds like a useful idiot.


ROGERS: I fully expect them to continue this -- this level of activity because I -- our sense is that they have come to the conclusion that it generated a positive outcome for them in the sense that calling into question the democratic process for example is one element of the strategy.

you know what "calls into question the democratic process?" not news reports that Russians hacked voter registration machines. But this does https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2015-05-15/washington-insiders-reap-windfall-peddling-influence-for-kremlin . And having a fucking Russian stooge for President.

...


Turner distracting with complaining about the Flynn leaks again.

Trying to argue the USIC is bad because they might have caught Flynn with incidental collection.


Don't you need some action or some information besides just attending a meeting, having been paid to attend a conference, that a picture was taken, or that you traveled to a country before your open to investigation for counterintelligence by the FBI?

COMEY: The standard is, I think there's a couple different at play. A credible allegation of wrongdoing or reasonable basis to believe that an American may be acting as an agent of a foreign power.

...

SPEIER mentions Micheal Caputo, "Putin's image consultant" hired by Trump campaign.


In March of 2016, Then-Candidate Trump referred to Carter Page as his foreign policy advisor to the Washington Post. The next day, Page asserts that he's an advisor on Russia and energy. But then subsequently, Candidate Trump says he doesn't know him.

SPEIER: On September 26, he takes a leave of absence from the campaign and then Page publicly supports a relationship with Russia, criticizes U.S. sanctions and NATO's approach to Russia, saying -- and then subsequently says he's divesting his stake in Gazprom in August. In 2014, he writes an article criticizing the U.S. sanctions, praising Sechin in an article and global policy and then rebuked the west for focusing on so-called annexation of Crimea.

In July of 2016, he gives a graduation speech at the new economic school, denies meeting with the prime minister, Christopher Steele, in his dossier, says he met with, again, Igor Sechin, offering a 19 percent interest in Rosneft. It becomes the biggest transfer of public property to private ownership.

Now, Carter Page is a national security adviser to Donald Trump. Do you believe that -- why do we -- I guess, again, here's another company that has had sanctions imposed upon it. Could you again clarify why we impose sanctions on companies?

speier knows her shit


...


Quigley talking about "the Russian playbook."

mentions useful idiots, helping Russia without realizing it.

COMEY: I can answer generally. In the world of intelligence, oftentimes there are people who are called co-optees, who are acting -- don't realize they're dealing with agents of a foreign power and so are doing things for someone they think is a friend or a business associate, not realizing it's for that -- the foreign government. So it can happen, it's actually quite a frequent technique.


Quigley argues Sessions is not only guilty of perjury, he very likely knew the Russians were up to no good. Says Sessions met with the Russians a third time.

...

SWALWELL trying to argue Trump deliberately lied, is guilty, and compromised

...

What is Turner trying to say? that the investigation is ill-founded? he presses Comey until he says "no, travelling around the world is not enough to open an investigation" then it looks like tries to blame him for "undermining democracy."


TURNER: Mr. Comey, I have a question against -- again concerning classified information. Now, I know that if I attend a classified briefing and I receive classified information and I go and tell someone that classified information, if I leak it, I release it, then I've committed a crime. But what if someone goes to a classified briefing, walks out of that briefing, and openly lies about the content of that briefing? Because it's unclear to me what happens then.

Turner insinuating all the leakers are liars (seriously?)

Comey agrees, says "there's a whole lot of stuff out there that's wrong."

then

TURNER: Mr. Comey, The New York Times reported on February 14th, 2017, that General Flynn was interviewed by FBI personnel. Is that correct?

COMEY: I can't comment on that, Mr. Turner.

Trying to cast doubt on reports that Flynn was interviewed by FBI personnel?

...

WESNSTRUP attempting to defend Sessions by grandstanding about meeting with ambadassadors, worry-warting about if anything he says could lead to be investigated.

Expecpt the problem is that Sessions lied under oath... wtf is wrong with our politicians?


WENSTRUP: I guess one more question before the time is up and we'll come back to me, but I am curious, is it possible -- and nothing to do with this article. Is it possible that a so-called source to a media outlet may actually be a Russian advocate? Nothing to do with this story per say, just is it possible that a Russian surrogate could actually be the source that a newspaper is relying on?

COMEY: In general, sure, somebody could always be pretending to be something they're not.


Wenstrup saying all the anonymous sources could be Russian spies (I mean some of them could be and probably are...)

Comey needs a shower after Wenstrup's questions

(Nunes resists for some reason? interesting...)

...

SCHIFF: Director Comey, just a couple follow-up questions before I pass it to Mr. Quigley to enter something in the record. You've been asked a number of questions today about is it enough to open an investigation because someone travels or is enough because they have their photograph taken or enough because they attend a conference. I would imagine that you get so many leads, so many people writing to you with information that they're convinced shows (ph) a crime that if you investigated everything that people sent you, you would be squandering your investigative resources in a way you can't afford to do.

My understanding, and correct me if I'm wrong, is that in order for you to open an investigation, you need to see credible information or evidence that someone has either committed a federal crime or become an agent of a foreign power. Is that an accurate understanding?

COMEY: Yeah, that's a fair statement. And as you said, Mr. Schiff, we have to also choose which -- we get a lot of referrals, which ones align with the threats that the FBI is trying to prioritize because we have limited resources.

SCHIFF: Exactly. So even when those criteria are met, that enough may not be -- that in and of itself may not be enough because you have so many other cases you need to investigate and you have to prioritize.


Why is Schiff bringing this up?

Schiff points out that Preibus is a peice of shit for asking the FBI to shoot down a story.

...

SWALWELL grandstanding about how Russia could have financial leverage on Trump.

Swalwell is kindof suspicious? lots of silly-sounding questions that Comey obviously can't answer. I don't think Trump is motivated by financial connections (except subconciously maybe?)

Trump sounds like a useful idiot in the final stages of KGB brainwashing. That could be motivation enough. Praising Putin and complaining about Obama--he sounds exactly like one of Russia's fake news sites. Same ideology.

SWALWELL: Mr. Director and Admiral Rogers, this past election, our country was attacked. We were attacked by Russia. It was electronic. It was nearly invisible. Thanks to the hard work of the men and women who serve in our intelligence community, we know that the attack came from Russian. It was ordered by Vladimir Putin. He sought to help Donald Trump and to take down Hillary Clinton. The most disturbing finding for me and my fellow committee members is that Russia intends to do this again.

Ya Swalwell sounds like an idiot or a spy.

...

WENSTRUP: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

If I can, gentlemen, go back to what we were talking about a little bit before with interference from the Russians possibly in through our media. Have Russians or Soviets historically attempted to spread this information through the U.S. media? As (ph) you -- you mentioned they've been there in over decades trying to interfere, they use media as a resource.

ROGERS: We see them use media writ large as a resource to disseminate disinformation, false information.

WENSTRUP: And is that -- been pretty much regardless of who's in the White House?

ROGERS: It doesn't seem to tie to a particular political party, that tactic, if you will.

WENSTRUP: Thank you.


Wenstrup establishes that the Russians like to use the media, irrespective of whoever is in the White House.

ROGERS: We see them use media writ large as a resource to disseminate disinformation, false information.

WENSTRUP: And is that -- been pretty much regardless of who's in the White House?

ROGERS: It doesn't seem to tie to a particular political party, that tactic, if you will.

WENSTRUP: Thank you.


Rogers is wrong. Not all of it is disinformation.


Seems like Wenstrup is trying to argue the Feb 14 NY times article is Russian disinformation?

WENSTRUP: The pattern has been to interrupt us regardless of who is in the White House.

COMEY: Yes. They want to mess with us and in a continuing and general way. It's hard to answer the counterfactual. I assume they would've continued their efforts to undermine President-Elect (sic) Clinton as they had begun doing during the summer, especially with European allies to create a divide there and probably lots of other things. What I meant by they'll be back is, they're not going away. But in the -- in the -- I mean that that in the sense of their next opportunity to mess with our election is two years from now and in four years. That's what I meant by back.

Sounds like Wenstrup is trying to argue the Russians are trying to undermine Trump.

...

STEWART: That's exactly right and are both of your agencies capable of handling accusations agree with me on that. I'd like to shift quickly if I could to the integrity of the report which the previous DNI when he determined along with your acquiescence, I might add, both of you, that Russia developed a clear preference for Mr. Trump and this is a huge deal. I mean, think about this story the American people have been told and some believe that our president was elected maybe because of the influence of a foreign government.

And I love you guys, you know that, and I defend you and we respect what you do but I do need to make this point and that is the intelligence community is not perfect, is it?

COMEY: Not perfect?

STEWART: Yes.

COMEY: Certainly not.

STEWART: Certainly not.


Stewart trying to argue the intel community is wrong and Russia didn't have a preference for Trump.

COMEY: I think the assessment was, late in the summer, they concluded based on the polling I think a lot of people were reading, that Mr. Trump didn't have a chance. And they shifted to just focusing on just trying to undermine her.

STEWART: And I tell you, if you were to tell me and I know you didn't but I'm just saying, if anyone were to tell me that they concluded Mr. Trump is going to win. I'd just say they're nuts, because there was no one in the world who thought that. Every media organization, every political organization, every government organization that I'm familiar with last fall thought that Secretary Clinton would be the next President of the United States.

COMEY: I think the Russians agreed.

Did all of them agree?

They could hide their intentions, compartmentalize intelligence.

E.G. knowing they could hack voting machines, knowing the could get the FBI to do their dirty work for them with the Weiner-Sext scandal.

Would be more sun-tzu shit, appear to do one thing when actually you do something quite different.

I had actually figured they would never hack the election because that would give a clear and obvious way to be rid of Trump, as well as the shame of electing him. But just look at Congress today! The shame will never go away...

...

STEWART: I understand. I spent some time out at the CIA last week. I went -- was with the staff as best we could, through the 2000 some odd pages and by the way, not many people did. And some people are casting, you know, aspirations (ph) and not making the effort to go out there and actually look at that.

But I'm telling you that having done that, I think a reasonable person could say what I've said here today, that there is another -- another element to this. That there is another, as you said Mr. Comey, another side of the coin. And this is a very, very difficult to, in my opinion, thing to say with high levels of confidence. Which is why, once again the intelligence community isn't perfect sometimes. And we do make mistakes.

wtf is this? saying he read 2000 pages of intelligence and proves the USIC is wrong but won't say why...

Schiff buts in and says "by the way the report doesn't cover the FBI's current investigation"

...

Castro really super duper cares about the dossier. Sounds like a useful idiot or spy.


CASTRO: So, the dossier states in an entry dated August 10, 2016, that a quote "Kremlin official involved in U.S. relations" suggested that Moscow might offer assistance to quote "sympathetic U.S. actors." Does this sound like a plausible tactic out of the Russian playbook? COMEY: I'm not going to comment on that, Mr. Castro.

Castro is trying to get Comey to verify the dossier.

Keeps being annoying and asking Comey questions he can't answer.

House intel committee is fucked. Wtf is this?

...

HECK: Admiral Rogers, before I get into my main body in my remarks, I want to go back to your earlier comment about that there is no evidence to indicate that there was a successful Russian hacking of voter results or tabulations. What I did not hear you say is whether or not there had been any attempts to hack into election systems of any kind.

ROGERS: Yes.

COMEY: I can answer that because the FBI's responsibility's in the United States. We saw no indication of that. We saw efforts to penetrate voter registration databases, state Boards of Elections, at that level. We saw no efforts aimed at the vote itself.

But did he investigate it? Comey says they didn't assess if Russia affected the outcome...

...


TURNER: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

There's been a lot of statements that have been made up here that is opposed to questions. And we don't certainly feel the need to clarify all of them, but there is one aspect that does need to be clarified because it's also involved both of your testimonies.

There's been discussion up here concerning the statements by James Clapper and, rather than do the conjecture as it has been made, I'm going to just read it. Chuck Todd said, "Let me ask you this. Does intelligence exist that can definitively answer the following question whether there were improper contacts between the Trump campaign and Russian officials?" James Clapper said, "We did not include any evidence in our report.

I say 'our,' that's NSA, FBI, and CIA, with my office and the Director of National Intelligence, that had anything, that had any reflection of collusion between members of the Trump campaign and the Russians. There was no evidence of that included in our report." Chuck Todd followed up. "I understand that, but does it exist?" James Clapper answered, "Not to my knowledge." So the text is not merely related to the report. I yield back.


Turner eager to point out that clapper said he doesn't have knowledge of improper contacts between the Trump campaign and the Russians.

Turner is openly advocating for the Kremlin now?
