https://www.civilwar.org/learn/articles/why-non-slaveholding-southerners-fought
	The South felt increasingly beleaguered as the North increased its criticism of slavery.  Abolitionist societies sprang up, Northern publications demanded the immediate end of slavery, politicians waxed shrill about the immorality of human bondage, and overseas, the British parliament terminated slavery in the British West Indies.  A prominent historian accurately noted that “by the late 1850’s most white Southerners viewed themselves as prisoners in their own country, condemned by what they saw as a hysterical abolition movement.”

	As Southerners became increasingly isolated, they reacted by becoming more strident in defending slavery.  The institution was not just a necessary evil: it was a positive good, a practical and moral necessity.  Controlling the slave population was a matter of concern for all Whites, whether they owned slaves or not.  Curfews governed the movement of slaves at night, and vigilante committees patrolled the roads, dispensing summary justice to wayward slaves and whites suspected of harboring abolitionist views.  Laws were passed against the dissemination of abolitionist literature, and the South increasingly resembled a police state.  A prominent Charleston lawyer described the city’s citizens as living under a “reign of terror.”


http://www.kansascity.com/opinion/article136721193.html
	How did the plantation owners mislead so many Southern whites?

	They managed this con job partly with a propaganda technique that will be familiar to modern Americans, but hasn’t received the coverage it deserves in our sesquicentennial celebrations. Starting in the 1840s wealthy Southerners supported more than 30 regional pro-slavery magazines, many pamphlets, newspapers and novels that falsely touted slave ownership as having benefits that would – in today’s lingo – trickle down to benefit non-slave owning whites and even blacks. The flip side of the coin of this old-is-new trickle-down propaganda is the mistaken notion that any gain by blacks in wages, schools or health care comes at the expense of the white working class.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-Tom_literature
	Anti-Tom literature refers to the 19th century pro-slavery novels and other literary works written in response to Harriet Beecher Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin.

	...The response to Stowe's novel in the American South was one of outrage. To counter Stowe's novel, Southern writers produced a number of pro-slavery books, the vast majority of them novels. In 1852 alone, eight anti-Tom novels were published.


http://essentialcivilwarcurriculum.com/union-and-confederate-politics.html





http://www.independent.co.uk/news/science/archaeology/historians-reveal-secrets-of-uk-gun-running-which-lengthened-the-american-civil-war-by-two-years-9557937.html
	Other research, carried out over the past decade, has revealed the extraordinary extent to which substantial sections of Britain’s business elite were working with impunity to help the slave-owning southern states win the Civil War – despite the fact that Britain was officially neutral and had outlawed slavery almost 30 years earlier.


https://www.civilwar.org/learn/articles/why-non-slaveholding-southerners-fought
	Two days before South Carolina seceded, Judge Alexander Hamilton Handy, Mississippi’s commissioner to Maryland, warned that “the first act of the black republican party will be to exclude slavery from all the territories, from the District of Columbia, the arsenals and the forts, by the action of the general government.  That would be a recognition that slavery is a sin, and confine the institution to its present limits.  The moment that slavery is pronounced a moral evil – a sin – by the general government, that moment the safety of the rights of the south will be entirely gone.”


	...Southerners heard the identical message from their community leaders.  In the fall of 1860, John Townsend, owner of a cotton plantation on Edisto Island, authored a pamphlet delineating the consequences of Lincoln’s elevation to presidency.

	...Non-slaveholders, he predicted, were also in danger.  “It will be to the non-slaveholder, equally with the largest slaveholder, the obliteration of caste and the deprivation of important privileges,” he cautioned.  “The color of the white man is now, in the South, a title of nobility in his relations as to the negro,” he reminded his readers.



http://www.independent.co.uk/news/science/archaeology/historians-reveal-secrets-of-uk-gun-running-which-lengthened-the-american-civil-war-by-two-years-9557937.html
	The entirely illegal, but tacitly British-Government-approved pro-Confederate gun-running operation is thought to have lengthened the American Civil War by up to two years – and to have therefore cost as many as 400,000 American lives.

	...Researcher Gerald Hayes is piecing together the previously unstudied details of a complex of more than half a dozen blockade-busting companies based in Liverpool and London and their relationship with other Confederate sympathizers – including pro-Confederacy MPs at Westminster.

	Britain was split down the middle in its attitude to the American Civil War. The left, many liberals and much of the working class was pro-US and anti-Confederate – mainly because of the South’s pro-slavery stance. But many Tories and much of the business sector were actively pro-Confederate, as there were considerable fortunes to be made from supplying guns, uniforms, medicines, textiles and even food to the south.

	Geopolitically, the British government saw the USA as a growing challenge to its global domination – especially in terms of merchant marine carrying capacity. The British also feared US expansionism and potential US-originating threats to Canada and British colonies in the Caribbean.

	“Economically Britain saw huge advantages in the break-up of the United States. It saw the American South as a source of raw cotton – and as a market for manufacturing goods, whereas it saw the North as an industrial competitor which sought to use protectionist policies to exclude Britain from American markets,” said Dr. Graham.



http://projects.leadr.msu.edu/usforeignrelations/exhibits/show/british-involvement-in-the-ame



--------


https://twitter.com/RogerJStoneJr/status/793147437389144064
	More dead than will fit in a Twitter animation, so many the artist got ill making it. #ClintonBodyCount #StopHillary http://stopthesteal.org 


https://www.infowars.com/wet-works-podesta-email-makes-assassination-reference-days-before-scalia-death/
	‘Wet Works’: Podesta Email Makes Assassination Reference Days Before Scalia Death
	“Didn't think wet works meant pool parties at the Vineyard.”

	Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta used a term known to reference assassination in an email sent to a lobbyist days before Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia’s mysterious death.


http://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/killed-antonin-scalia-conspiracy-theorists-run-wild-article-1.2533100
	Who killed Antonin Scalia? Conspiracy theorists run wild 

	A blogger who conjures up conspiracy theories under the name Paladin Justice said Bill and Hillary Clinton may have orchestrated Scalia’s killing in an attempt to stifle a possible Supreme Court ruling over the former Secretary of State’s email controversy.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-04-25/hillary-unleashes-million-dollar-professional-internet-troll-army
	Hillary Clinton-aligned Super PAC, Correct the Record, is taking a page out of Vladimir Putin’s playbook by employing a $1 million dollar professional internet troll army to build a paid, positive consensus about the Clinton campaign. 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-10-08/podesta-files-show-illegal-coordination-david-brock-super-pac
	Another startling discovery from the "Podesta Emails" seems to indicate that the Clinton campaign openly coordinated with the "Correct The Record" Super PAC run by David Brock...which we believe is technically a felony.  That said, we're sure the FBI could find a way to argue the intent.  


http://www.mintpressnews.com/trolling-way-white-house-clinton-linked-pac-launches-1m-campaign-trump-bernie-bros/216264/
	Hillary Clinton is taking her battle for the White House to social media, as a new super PAC linked to her campaign prepares to spend big to participate in online flame wars.

	...Chris Matyszczyk, CNET’s reporter on online culture, suggested Clinton was adopting Trump’s tactics. “It’s not a pretty picture for Trump and it is, indeed, just the sort of thing he himself would release if he were running against himself,” he wrote of one ad earlier this month.

	Clinton is increasingly perceived to be losing control of the election, at least on social media. “The lack of engagement is one of Clinton’s bigger tactical vulnerabilities, particularly when compared with rivals like Donald Trump, whose viral social media attacks are legion, and Sen. Bernie Sanders, who is backed by a passionate army of media-savvy millennials,” Halper wrote.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-10-09/new-email-leak-reveals-unprecedented-coordination-between-hillary-campaign-and-press
	Newly Leaked Emails Reveal Unprecedented Coordination Between Hillary Campaign And Press

	It is no secret that the mainstream media has a "slight" left-leaning bias in their political reporting.  But newly leaked emails from Guccifer 2.0, obtained exclusively by The Intercept, reveal just how "cozy" and pervasive the Clinton campaign's relationship is with the press.  From "off-the-record dinners with the key national reporters" to feeding pre-written propaganda pieces to "friendly" journalists, the new leaks reveal startling coordination between the Clinton campaign and the mainstream media.

		...We have has a very good relationship with Maggie Haberman of Politico over the last year. We have had her tee up stories for us before and have never been disappointed.


------


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/books-and-monographs/okhrana-the-paris-operations-of-the-russian-imperial-police/5474-1.html
	Harting's case officer was Pyotr Rachkovsky, probably the ablest head of the Okhrana's Foreign Bureau. Rachkovsky was a pioneer. He refined the art of what we today call active measures or perceptions management techniques. 	

	...According to one authority, Rachkovsky was a "born intriguer" who "delighted" in forging documents. He allegedly was among those responsible for the anti-Semitic Protocols of the Elders of Zion, perhaps the most infamous political forgery of the 20th century. Rachkovsky's tactic of exploiting anti-Semitism for political purposes was used repeatedly during the Soviet era--for example, in Hungary in 1956, in Czechoslovakia in 1968, and in Poland in the 1980s. Such scapegoating also was evident in the so-called "Doctors Plot" in the early 1950s, when a group of Jewish doctors was accused of plotting to kill Stalin and other Soviet leaders.


http://www.sscnet.ucla.edu/soc/groups/scr/kellogg.pdf
	The greatest piece of “evidence”  that right-wing Russian elements used to support their assertions of a Jewish world-conspiracy came in the form of a vitriolic tract best known as The Protocols of the Elders of Zion. ...The Protocols were most likely fabricated in 1897 or 1898 in Paris.  The Protocols critique liberalism, claiming that it is a tool for the Jews to gain world-domination by fomenting discontent and revolt so that they can use the ensuing chaos to establish a Jewish despot to rule over the world.

	...It is important to note that the Protocols were not widely distributed in pre-Revolutionary Russian society, even in reactionary circles. They were not "discovered" until after the outbreak of the Bolshevik Revolution, after which they were widely distributed among the "White" forces during the Russian Civil War.


https://www.ushmm.org/wlc/en/article.php?ModuleId=10007058
	Nazi party ideologue Alfred Rosenberg introduced Hitler to the Protocols during the early 1920s, as Hitler was developing his worldview. Hitler referred to the Protocols in some of his early political speeches, and, throughout his career, he exploited the myth that "Jewish-Bolshevists" were conspiring to control the world.

	During the 1920s and 1930s, The Protocols of the Elders of Zion played an important part in the Nazis' propaganda arsenal. The Nazi party published at least 23 editions of the Protocols between 1919 and 1939. Following the Nazis' seizure of power in 1933, some schools used the Protocols to indoctrinate students. 

	...The area under his authority was the first to see the “Final Solution of the Jewish Question” carried out through the systematic murder of Jewish men, women, and children. By the end of 1941, more than half a million Jews had been annihilated; Estonia, part of the “Reichskommissariat Ostland” was the first German-occupied region declared to be “free of Jews.” Since November 1941, trains with Jews deported from the Reich arrived in the “Ostland.” SS and police officers together with Rosenberg's officials made sure that the deportees were either killed immediately on arrival or exploited in forced labor projects few could survive.

	The importance of the events in the occupied Soviet Union for the history of the Holocaust can hardly be overestimated. Despite its constant power struggles with the SS and other German agencies, Rosenberg's ministry played a key role in the evolution of the “Final Solution.” His Reich Ministry was the only government agency to send not one, but two representatives to the notorious Wannsee Conference convened by Reinhard Heydrich on January 20, 1942, to coordinate the next steps towards the mass murder of Jews in German-controlled Europe.


https://www.ushmm.org/wlc/en/article.php?ModuleId=10007058
	Nazi party ideologue Alfred Rosenberg introduced Hitler to the Protocols during the early 1920s, as Hitler was developing his worldview. Hitler referred to the Protocols in some of his early political speeches, and, throughout his career, he exploited the myth that "Jewish-Bolshevists" were conspiring to control the world.

	During the 1920s and 1930s, The Protocols of the Elders of Zion played an important part in the Nazis' propaganda arsenal. The Nazi party published at least 23 editions of the Protocols between 1919 and 1939. Following the Nazis' seizure of power in 1933, some schools used the Protocols to indoctrinate students. 

	...The area under his authority was the first to see the “Final Solution of the Jewish Question” carried out through the systematic murder of Jewish men, women, and children. By the end of 1941, more than half a million Jews had been annihilated; Estonia, part of the “Reichskommissariat Ostland” was the first German-occupied region declared to be “free of Jews.” Since November 1941, trains with Jews deported from the Reich arrived in the “Ostland.” SS and police officers together with Rosenberg's officials made sure that the deportees were either killed immediately on arrival or exploited in forced labor projects few could survive.

	The importance of the events in the occupied Soviet Union for the history of the Holocaust can hardly be overestimated. Despite its constant power struggles with the SS and other German agencies, Rosenberg's ministry played a key role in the evolution of the “Final Solution.” His Reich Ministry was the only government agency to send not one, but two representatives to the notorious Wannsee Conference convened by Reinhard Heydrich on January 20, 1942, to coordinate the next steps towards the mass murder of Jews in German-controlled Europe.


http://library.cqpress.com/cqresearcher/document.php?id=cqresrre1935080200
	The Nazi propaganda campaign has made full use of the spurious Protocols of Zion This document, which has had a long and checkered history, has been conclusively proved a plagiarism and a forgery. In its decision in a libel case in August, 1934, the Supreme Court of the Union of South Africa denounced it as “an impudent forgery, obviously for the purpose of anti-Jewish propaganda.”


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._Army_Field_Manual_30-31B

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Protocols_of_the_Elders_of_Zion

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tanaka_Memorial
