How does one go about getting a government to dissolve? As it turns out, you ask them to:


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_revolutions_and_rebellions#2010s


Most of the successful revolutions of the past two decades have been from protests asking for the current administration to resign. Anybody could start right now.

I believe this works because most governments ultimately derive their power from legitimacy. A police officer might do his government's work because he wants to enforce the law. But what if the government he works for is ran by criminals--the President, Congress, and the Attorney General alike? Now if a provisional government claims legitimacy instead, and is ran by people who actually care about the public (and are decidedly NOT criminals), he might think: "This government is ran by the very kind of people I want to protect my countrymen from. Why should I continue working for them? Why shouldn't I work for this provisional government instead?" And if his fellow officers all the way up to the chief agree, why not just have the whole department start working for the provisional government at once? So you can see, a change in government is nothing more than a change in people's minds.

What this means is that, once enough people start demanding their government leadership to resign, they have little choice but to comply--they don't have any of the power their government positions confer without the acceptance of the people. You can see this in the Tunisian Revolution, the Egyptian Revolution, the Ukrainian Revolution, and many of the revolutions throughout the 21st century: even some of the most corrupt and cruel leaders realized that, once enough of the public demanded their resignation, there was little they could do.

Obviously actually getting a government to resign is more complicated than that. Our country already has many of the preconditions for such a change, but most people don't know that they can ask the Government to resign and they are not organized. 

Right now, I don't know of any organization that exists that people can rally behind--there is still a lot of work to be done. But I do know one thing you can do right now: TELL PEOPLE. Every American needs to know what's going on and that we can fix it. Tell people who are good at organizing. Tell people who can tell more people. I'm just one person, and that's basically all I've been doing sending these emails, and I think it's already made a difference. It's not hard.

Once enough people know what's going on, we need to organize protests to ask for the Government to resign. Even a small protest matters--if more people notice it than showed up, you've made a difference. If people notice and agree, the next protest will be bigger. The Tunisian Revolution started with a few hundred students protesting government corruption. In America, a few dozen people dumping tea into the Boston Harbor eventually grew into the American Revolution.

Our Government leadership is awful enough that most Americans would like to see a new one already, including, I believe, most people in the Government itself. What people need to know most of all is that we can change things ourselves. Once a movement for the Government to resign gains public support, it's very possible we will see city and state governments voicing support as well.

After the Government resigns, we should have a provisional government hold new elections. Elections under a provisional government, if not guaranteed to be free of foreign influence, would at least be free from foreign influence enabled and aided by our own so called "representatives." And unlike some of our elections in the past (see: https://pastebin.com/EzKGUmr3), we can hold these elections in a democratic way. Campaign finance reform and paper ballots would be a start.

None of this is going to happen overnight--there is still a lot of work to be done.



