https://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=768335
    KGB “illegals,” who also provided support to network development and aspects of actives measures objectives fell under three categories: (1) ‘Strategic’ illegals lived as “sleepers” in the target country, “usually running small businesses or following a profession but doing little or no operational work. They were intended to become active only in time of East-West conflict”; (2) Active illegals living abroad, “recruiting and running agents, gathering political and/or scientific and technological intelligence”; and (3) Illegals based in Moscow who regularly conducted “shorter-term trips abroad (usually between one and ten months) to perform specific operational tasks such as meeting an agent or carrying out a ‘false flag’ recruitment.”


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Illegals_Program


https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10000872396390444097904577537044185191340
http://web.archive.org/web/20170317024622/http://www.justicefornorthcaucasus.com/jfnc_message_boards/analysis_opinion.php?entry_id=1343340602&title=russian-spy-ring-aimed-to-make-children-agents
    A Russian spy ring busted in the U.S. two years ago planned to recruit members’ children to become agents, and one had already agreed to his parents’ request, according to current and former U.S. officials.

    When the suspects were arrested in 2010 with much fanfare, official accounts suggested they were largely ineffectual. New details about their time in the U.S., however, suggest their work was more sophisticated and sometimes more successful than previously known.

    …The effort to bring children into the family business suggests the ring was thinking long term: Children born or reared in America were potentially more valuable espionage assets than their parents because when they grew up they would be more likely to pass a U.S. government background check.

    …His parents revealed their double life to him well before their arrest, according to current and former officials, whose knowledge of the discussion was based on surveillance by the Federal Bureau of Investigation that included bugging suspects’ homes. The officials said the parents also told their son they wanted him to follow in their footsteps.

    He agreed, said the officials. At the end of the discussion with his parents, according to one person familiar with the surveillance, the young man stood up and saluted “Mother Russia.” He also agreed to travel to Russia to begin formal espionage training, officials said.

    …Based on their extensive surveillance of the secret agents and their messages to handlers back in Moscow, U.S. counterintelligence officials believe the grooming of Mr. Foley was part of a long-term goal for some of the group’s children to become spies when they got older.


http://www.nytimes.com/1985/06/16/us/us-frustrated-in-efforts-to-counter-soviet-spying.html
    While the Government has debated the number of counterintelligence agents it needs, the Soviet Union has improved and expanded its intelligence operations here, senior officials said.

    Over the last decade, intelligence officials said, Moscow has more than doubled the number of intelligence officers assigned to the United States while at the same time broadening their operations to focus on American technology and military industries.

    In the past Soviet officers worked chiefly in only four or five major cities, including New York, Washington and San Francisco. But Mr. O'Malley said they now operate nationwide.

    In addition, past and present intelligence officials say the quality of K.G.B. agents has significantly improved since the days when American officers said they could easily spot them by their baggy pants and awkward English.

    "They can now blend in, in speech, manner, dress and education," said a former senior intelligence official. Still, Administration officials acknowledge that there is a continuing and perhaps irresolvable debate over the extent of K.G.B. capabilities and operations in this country.

     Most intelligence officials say they believe that American intelligence operations are better than those of the K.G.B. but that the K.G.B. does not require as much skill to operate effectively in America's open society
    ...The last group consists of undercover Soviet officers who enter the country illegally, take up residence as American citizens and try to blend into American society.

    These ''illegals,'' report directly to Moscow, intelligence officials say, and try to find jobs that give them access to sensitive information. The most famous of these was Col. Rudolf Abel, a Soviet officer who ran a successful spy network in the 1950's.

     Admiral Turner, the former C.I.A. Director, said, ''I suspect there are a sizable number of illegals in the United States,'' although intelligence officals say no one knows for sure.

     For several years the Congressional intelligence committees have been struggling to increase the number of F.B.I. agents assigned to the counterintelligence office.

     ''For the last three or four years, our intelligence committee has increased the F.C.I. manpower above what the Administration asked for,'' said Senator Leahy, the committee's vice chairman, referring to the foreign counterintelligence office. Still, he added, ''There are nowhere near enough agents.''


https://www.muckrock.com/news/archives/2015/jan/26/plan-c-top-secret-cold-war-battle-plan-bring-unite/
http://www.businessinsider.com/here-was-the-fbis-secret-plan-in-case-nuclear-war-broke-out-2015-1
    The United States government made extreme, top-secret plans for preserving national security in the event of a nuclear attack during the Cold War, according to documents recently released to transparency journalism organization MuckRock.

    The FBI created "Plan C" in 1956, the same year the Red Army shut down the Hungarian Revolution, and if activated, Plan C would have put the nation under martial law and allowed for nearly 13,000 people to be detained for having links to "subversive organizations."

    The FBI held a briefing with three top officials from every department to distribute papers outlining Plan C, which was later given to FBI field offices. The plan was ordered to be destroyed in July 1957.

    Although the plan was never released, MuckRock's memos from closed meetings with high-ranking officials give readers an idea of what could have happened. Plan C would have gone into effect "after a war has begun in which the U.S. is involved or may become involved and prior to an actual attack on the U.S. itself," according to the documents.

    Government organizations would decide which of their employees were essential and have them hide out in backup offices. Soviet embassies would be searched for weapons, radios and explosives. Up to 900 Soviet diplomats and couriers would be taken into custody.

    In an emergency, the government would also have activated a detention program that would have led to arrests for "individuals whose affiliations with subversive organizations are so pronounced that their continued liberty in the event of national emergency would present a serious threat," according to the documents. The exact number of people who would be affected was set at 12,949.


I wonder if this was the number of Russian illegals in the U.S. in 1957? Supposedly they train their children to be spies and have been sending more, so there could be a lot more now.

I think there are a lot of them working as journalists. They're not hard to find if you know to look. You have to figure out what Russia is trying to do and what they'd want the public to believe to make that happen, then read blog posts, op-eds, and news reports with a critical eye, especially if the author sounds like they're trying to be manipulative.

I think they help each other out and try to promote each other to positions of power. So Angleton might have been right that there are a lot in the U.S. Government.

The Government should investigate Russia's illegals program and inform the public. Infiltration of our Government, businesses, and media by that many spies could create a lot of problems for the U.S. You should also be wary of the possibility of illegals who have infiltrated U.S. intelligence agencies, gotten elected to Congress, or have been appointed to powerful Government positions.
