Hello,

As many in Western media may know, the Kremlin has been using "active measures" to conduct psychological warfare against the West. KGB defector Yuri Bezmenov has written an insightful, if colorful, overview of the goals and  methods of active measures and "ideological subversion:"

http://uselessdissident.blogspot.com/2008/12/love-letter-to-america-part-one.html

    "All warfare is based primarily on the deception of an enemy. Fighting on a battlefield is the most primitive way of making war. There is no art higher than to destroy your enemy without a fight—by SUBVERTING anything of value in the enemy’s country.
        Sun Tzu
        Chinese philosopher
        500 B.C.

    The art of duping the masses into doing things to their own disadvantage and making them believe it is "the will of people" is as ancient as mankind itself.

    The essence of subversion is best expressed in the famous Marxist slogan, (if you substitute "proletarians" for a more appropriate word): "Useful idiots of the world UNITE!” To achieve the desired effect, the subverter must first make idiots out of normal people, and DIVIDE them, before turning the people into a homogenized mass of useful and united idiots. Tanks and missiles may or may not be needed at final stage. For the time being they are simply the means of terrorizing people into inaction and submission.

    500 years before Christ, the Chinese military strategist Sun Tzu formulated the principle of subversion this way:

    1. Cover with ridicule all of the valid traditions in your opponent's country.
    2. Implicate their leaders in criminal affairs and turn them over to the scorn of their populace at the right time;
    3. Disrupt the work of their government by every means;
    4. Do not shun the aid of the lowest and most despicable individuals of your enemy's country.
    5. Spread disunity and dispute among the citizens.
    6. Turn the young against the old.
    7. Be generous with promises and rewards to collaborators and accomplices."


This post on War on the Rocks gives an overview of how the Kremlin's active measures work today:

https://warontherocks.com/2016/11/trolling-for-trump-how-russia-is-trying-to-destroy-our-democracy

    "Until recently, Western governments focused on state-to-state negotiations with Putin’s regime largely missed Russian state-to-people social media approaches. Russia’s social media campaigns seek five complementary objectives to strengthen Russia’s position over Western democracies:

    Undermine citizen confidence in democratic governance;
    Foment and exacerbate divisive political fractures;
    Erode trust between citizens and elected officials and democratic institutions;
    Popularize Russian policy agendas within foreign populations;
    Create general distrust or confusion over information sources by blurring the lines between fact and fiction"


Corrupt politicians are useful for Russia's active measures, as they tend to divide the public, disrupt government functioning, and degrade trust in the institutions they influence. Hillary Clinton, in particular, has been useful to the Russians in this way. For instance, Clinton has successfully degraded the once-proud Bureau of Diplomatic Security:

https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/hillary-r.-clinton-part-04-of-06/view (pg 43-45)

Clinton has also disrupted government function by making Top Secret/Special Access Program available to our adversaries:

http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/hillary-clinton-emails-contained-info-above-top-secret-ig-n499886

And her scandals, such as the Benghazi scandal or email scandals, have disrupted government functioning as well as polarized the public.

Russia has long tried to place agents of influence close to Clinton (such as in the infamous "Illegals Program"), and it is believed she and her campaign are under significant influence by Kremlin-aligned spies. Clinton has been integral to Russia's campaign, with much of their propaganda narrative centered around her. Russian propagandists have used Clinton as a "boogeyman" in arguing that U.S. institutions like our justice system and media are corporate-controlled and corrupt.

Note that this characterization differs from some reports of Russia's influence campaign, which have suggested it's ultimate goal was to swing the 2016 election to Trump. However, this narrative distracts from the scope of Russia's efforts to undermine the West. While it's true that the Kremlin would prefer Trump to Clinton, the preference appears to be born of Trump's greater capacity to promote public division and government dysfunction, and not strictly of Trump's greater desire to forge ties with Russia.

Note that, specifically, this characterization of Russia's motives differs from the characterization given by "Source E" in the Trump-Russia dossier. While much of the dossier appears to be accurate, some intelligence affiliates, including former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, have expressed concern that the Kremlin could deliberately provide "fake intelligence" to mislead the West. Such a tactic would be familiar to Russian intelligence (see the section on "doomed spies" in Sun Tzu's "The Art of War").
