https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minsk_Protocol
	Representatives of Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Donetsk People's Republic (DPR), and the Lugansk People's Republic (LPR) signed the Minsk Protocol,


Minsk informally recognize DPR?


why would you let the RUssias take a chunk of your country and sign a cease fire? after holodomor?


it doesn't make any sense, do Ukrainians not learn history in school?


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-31436513
	4. From day one of the withdrawal begin a dialogue on the holding of local elections

	In line with the Ukrainian law on temporary self-rule for parts of Donetsk and Luhansk. There will also be a dialogue on those areas' political future.


wtf does this even mean


	5. Pardon and amnesty by banning any prosecution of figures involved in the Donetsk and Luhansk conflict 


seems sketchy... aren't the KGB the ones more likely to use criminals, subversive stuff?



https://www.frstrategie.org/publications/notes/the-political-and-military-implications-of-the-minsk-2-agreements-11-2016
	A militarily unstable frontline

	Military positions have remained unchanged on the line of contact between the warring sides since the Battle of Debalsteve in mid-February 2015. Since then, the active phase of violence has gradually turned into a war of positions and trenches. Provocations and ceasefire violations (in the form of targeted shots from automatic rifle and artillery fire) have been recorded daily ever since; they have been concentrated mostly on the “usual” border hot spots in the Donetsk sector of the frontline


So it turned it from larger war to skirmishes? war of attrition type stuff?

is that what Russia wanted? Who was winning when they were signed?

	While not reflecting a willingness to provoke a resumption of hostilities, attacks by the separatists meet the tactical imperative of maintaining a controlled and calibrated military tension along the contact line, although without major escalation of violence. On the one hand, this gives them the advantage of forcing Ukrainian troops to reciprocate, a sort of entrapment that separatists can then use against Kyiv by playing the blame game of non-compliance with the ceasefire. On the other hand, it distracts Kyiv from reforms and tires out Ukraine militarily and economically, while weakening Kyiv’s positions and claims in the Minsk Group negotiations.


So its just there to blame Ukraine for violating the ceasfire agreement?


Seems like:

- Russia take a chunk of Ukraine
- Sign minsk
- consolidate power and set up staging area to invade rest of Ukraine
- also get them to informally recognize DPR
- blame Ukraine for violating ceasfire agreement every time they try to fight back against terrorists in their own country


paper says also using it to test defenses

	In recent months, the qualitative upgrade of monitoring and interception military equipment supplied by Moscow (last generation jamming stations, drones and UAVs, etc.) to the separatists also shows that the Kremlin has accepted the “freezing” of the military positions on the contact line. Interestingly, such surveillance equipment could also be used by FSB and GRU troops to control the movements and actions of separatist forces.

interesting



	Russia’s role in the conflict, ranging from territorial instrumentalization to direct aid aimed at the survival of the separatist entities, is also relatively similar. In other words, the war in Eastern Ukraine has been created and artificially maintained from the outside, and Moscow bears total responsibility in the continuation of the conflict. This situation is especially convenient for the Kremlin, which continues to rely on the rhetoric of “plausible deniability” when it comes to the presence of Russian troops in occupied Donbas. The logic goes that Russia cannot (officially that is) be considered a direct perpetrator or a party to the conflict.


nothing about "all FSB,GRU, etc." agents completely withdraw from Ukraine? all special forces? would be an interesting one.

Then catch them to show violated the agreement or someting

sounds like saying Minsk agreements don't show Putin responsible, mostly make Ukraine look bad for "violating" minsk agreements


	It would be wrong, however, to believe that Russia keeps complete control over the security and political life of the separatist entities. While Moscow keeps a strong grip on local leaders, on political representatives within the framework of the Minsk 2 working groups, and on primary military structures within the “People’s Republics”, it does not oversee relations between battalions and local politicians, which are left at the discretion of local “authorities” 

 	This situation is potentially dangerous for Russia, as Moscow must maintain some clout over local security services and thus avoid a loss of control over swaths of separatist territories in the hands of “warlords” barricaded in their local strongholds. This partly explains why GRU and FSB troops have been conducting military operations in the secessionist entities since mid-2015: rebellious battalions and rogue commanders not responding to the official chain of command of local Interior security forces (Oplot) are systematically disposed of. Several targeted killings and other “cleansing” operations have been recorded in recent months within the ranks of separatist forces 


KGB assassinating warlords they don't like

"cleansing?"

doesn't seem like a ceasfire to me

seems a way to consolidate control? break off Ukraine peace by peace

ha

piece by piece


	The latest (and impressive) such operation shed some light on the aborted attempts by DPR “President” Oleksandr Zakharchenko – backed by Moscow – to reassert control over the city of Yasinovota, the stronghold of rogue commander and leader of the “Vostok” battalion Oleksandr Khodakovsky. Without the direct support of Russian troops, Oplot forces have only limited military means of their own to retake territorial strongholds from local “warlords” (some of whom, including Khodakovsky, have become quite troublesome for Moscow). For their part, separatist leaders, including the political “elite”, are increasingly aware that they are all expendable, which contributes to increase internal violence and the scale of the grey economy. This situation is the corollary of a massive impoverishment of secessionist Donbas, now only surviving through the development of a war economy. 


so maybe trying to consolidate power over warlords, also wreck them with war, "war economy," increase crime


	The grey area in Donbas is falling victim to the predation of the scarce remaining resources, turf wars between battalions, subsistence economy, and total institutional decay. Russia has no interest in rebuilding or developing the “Republics”, but instead has chosen to conduct a policy of large-scale economic dismantling aimed at making the cost of rehabilitation intolerable for Kyiv.


Oh shit

that's differet

so saying wreck the Donbass, make everything awful, so that the longer this goes on the worse everything is for Ukraine? and also if they up the cost of rehabilitation, then Ukraine would be theoretically more likely to want to give up

also increasing stress and crime on people I think kind of "generates" more sociopaths, which gives KGB more recruitment opportunities. Saw the same thing after great Chinese Famine

(maybe Holodomor too?)

zielinski basically talked about this


http://www.smithsonianmag.com/science-nature/titanic-vs-lusitania-who-survived-and-why-24622866/
	Titanic vs. Lusitania: Who Survived and Why?
	By Sarah Zielinski 

	The composition of the survivors was very different, though. On the Titanic, women aged 16 to 35 (child-bearing age) were more likely to survive than other age groups, as were children and people with children. On the Lusitania, both women and men aged 16 to 35 were the most likely to have lived through the incident. There were class differences, too. First-class passengers fared the best on the Titanic but the worst—even worse than third-class passengers—on the Lusitania.

	What happened? The researchers say it all comes down to time.

	The passengers of the Lusitania had less than 20 minutes before their ship sank, and in such a life-and-death situation, social scientists say, "self-interested reactions predominate." It didn't matter what the captain ordered. The ship was going down and people reacted selfishly, and in such a situation, it would be expected that people in their prime (16 to 35) would be the most likely to win a seat on a lifeboat.


So this is what they think about, maybe how they think. Want to create more situations like the Lusitania, recruit the people on the lifeboats.



	Conversely, Russia seeks to impose a political settlement of the conflict between Kyiv and the “authorities” in DPR/LPR. According to the Kremlin, local elections and the vote of the “special status” for the breakaway regions are preconditions to military stabilization. Moscow is also concerned that the “People's Republics” are not officially represented in either the Minsk Contact Group or the Ukrainian Rada. Finally, Russian diplomats accuse Ukraine of “playing for time” by legally pushing back the vote of the law on “special status” and the constitutional reform on decentralization.


right, so Moscow wants their little project diplomatically recognized


	Due to the lack of genuine progress, the international community has gradually abandoned the concept of full respect of the ceasefire and of the military clauses of Minsk 2. This carries the risk of inexorably tilting towards a political (and thus Russian) interpretation of the February 2015 agreements, at the expense of Ukraine. This approach has been gradually pushed forward in order to avoid a complete breakdown of diplomatic negotiations, all the while forcing Ukraine to further compromise on its territorial integrity and the inviolability of its borders. On paper, the Minsk 2 process implies that Ukrainian sovereignty is now conditional to the application of the political clauses of the agreements, and therefore negotiable depending on Kyiv’s efforts and compromises. This strengthens Russia's position in the conflict resolution process, including its commitment to the political interpretation of the agreements, while projecting most of the blame of successive diplomatic failures on Kyiv.


yeah it makes it sound like Ukraine's borders are up for negotiation

------

https://www.forbes.com/sites/paulroderickgregory/2015/02/13/putin-comes-out-on-top-in-new-minsk-agreement/#5b4dfe54ede3
	Vladimir Putin was the winner of the Minsk II peace accords. Territory gained by the rebels in violation of Minsk I appears to be conceded; there is no deadline for the pulling out of Russian regular troops and mercenary forces; Kiev must pay the costs of occupied territory; and the self-appointed stooges of the Kremlin, who call themselves the leaders of the self-proclaimed “people’s republics,” have gained recognition and a say in constitutional change.


hmm that sounds bad

	The text of the agreement raises as many questions as it answers and sidesteps the thorniest issues. First, it calls for the “pullout of all foreign armed formations, military equipment, and also mercenaries from the territory of Ukraine under OSCE supervision (and) the disarmament of all illegal groups.” Sounds good, but all other provisions are subject to strict timelines. This one is not. No deadline is given—I doubt this was a drafting oversight. And monitoring is in the hands of the feckless Organization for Security and Cooperation (OSCE). Under this provision, Russian mercenaries and regular troops can remain indefinitely on Ukraine soil. The removal of foreign fighters was Poroshenko’s main goal and he lost badly on this one.


remove Russian forces but no deadline



------

http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-31436513
	Full Ukrainian government control will be restored over the state border, throughout the conflict zone

	To begin on the first day after local elections, and be completed after a comprehensive political settlement, by the end of 2015. (Local elections in rebel-controlled Donetsk and Luhansk regions will be based on Ukrainian law and a constitutional reform.) 


so what is this saying, Ukraine gets control over Donstsk and Lushansk after "election" for them to have "special status?" didn't Russia rig elections last time?

and iirc there was a debate, Ukraine wanted RUssian military and others out before elections I think?

https://www.voanews.com/a/ukraine-conditions-for-elections-in-donbas/3309806.html
	A top Ukrainian official said that elections in eastern Ukraine will be possible only after Ukraine's sovereignty is renewed in the region and Russia's presence is eliminated in those territories.

but no deadline for removing Russian forces there, and RUssia is just a "nuetral party" in the fight between Ukraine and "rebels"


http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/headlines/2014/11/ukrainian-rebel-regions-vote-with-fake-election-monitors-real-anger/
	 Exit poll results released by rebel leaders in the self-declared Donetsk People's Republic showed overwhelming support for the current leader of the rebel region, Alexander Zakharchenko, and his party.

	Though turnout was reportedly high, the vote lacked basic, internationally recognized safeguards for a free election. Armed rebel guards were posted outside - and sometimes inside - polling centers. Sacks of free or nearly free vegetables were offered for those who turned out.

	The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, or OSCE, refused to recognize the election and declined to send monitors. Instead, a shadowy and previously unheard of group calling itself the Agency for Security and Cooperation in Europe, or ASCE, was brought in to monitor and certify the results. Most of the monitors belonged to Russian political parties or extreme fringe European political movements.


that's suspicious


seems like they could do a better job of rigging the election though? something off about this


why should they even agree to have elections for terrorists to control a chunk of their country anyway


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-ukraine-crisis-idUSBREA400LI20140511
	Rebels declare victory in East Ukraine vote on self-rule

	Pro-Moscow rebels declared a resounding victory in a referendum on self-rule for eastern Ukraine, with some saying that meant independence and others eventual union with Russia as fighting flared in a conflict increasingly out of control.

	Organizers in the main region holding the makeshift vote on Sunday said nearly 90 percent had voted in favor.

	Well before polls closed, one separatist leader said the region would form its own state bodies and military after the referendum, formalizing a split that began with the armed takeover of state buildings in a dozen eastern towns last month.

	Another said the vote simply showed that the East wanted to decide its own fate, whether in Ukraine, on its own, or as part of Russia.

	"Eighty-nine percent, that's it," the head of the separatist electoral commission in Donetsk, Roman Lyagin, said by telephone when asked for the result of a vote that the pro-Western Ukrainian government in Kiev has condemned as illegal.


don't believe 89%

but could believe they would vote to split, propaganda could concinvce them, or just send in a bunch of RUssians to vote


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russians_in_Ukraine#Ukraine_after_the_dissolution_of_the_Soviet_Union
	Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Ukraine became an independent state. This independence was supported by the referendum in all regions of Ukrainian SSR, including those with large Russian populations.[20] A study of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine found that in 1991, 75% of ethnic Russians in Ukraine no longer identified themselves with the Russian nation.[21] In the December 1991 Ukrainian independence referendum 55% of the ethnic Russians in Ukraine voted for independence


huh


so how are the getting anything like 89%


even if Dontesk was like 100% Russian emigres, getting nonstop propaganda that Ukraine is nazis or something

clearly they would want to rig election as little as possible

but how do they rig it? just the military people at polling places?


thought their strat was to use immigration, like encourage or force Russians to immigrate to neighbor countries, then make them persecuted in those countries, then blast them with propaganda, then use them to take the country or part of it

Stalin did some kind of forced reorganization to put ethnic russians everywhere

but see that same thing in U.S. even, trying to increase persecution of Russians


http://www.zeit.de/politik/ausland/2016-09/russia-propaganda-eastern-ukraine-separatists-e-mails/seite-3
	Another option, according to the advisers, is to collect signatures from people making a direct appeal to President Putin to do things like provide the people of the Donbass region with Russian passports. If the signature campaign materializes, they add, it should praise the Kremlin for its strong ties to the people. "Then you can emphasize that the president has obeyed the will of the people." 


so this is talking about overt propaganda targeting Russian people


nothing on targetting Ukraine?

if they could turn most of Germany into anti-Bolshevak fanatics and Nazis could do similar in Ukraine

being overt in pro-Russian propaganda could prompt anti-Russian response in others? at least anti-Russian government


------


http://www.zeit.de/politik/ausland/2016-09/russia-propaganda-eastern-ukraine-separatists-e-mails/seite-5
	A team of international observers with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is stationed in Donetsk. Their mission is to monitor the ceasefire between Ukraine and the pro-Russian rebels outlined in the Minsk Protocol. But there is no ceasefire. In many cases, the OSCE experts can hardly tell who is firing at whom with missiles or shells. When a fire broke out in the OSCE motor pool on August 9, 2015, the rebel leadership in Donetsk reacted quickly, claiming that it was an arson attack against the observers by Ukrainian intelligence. A fabricated report was posted online – surprisingly quickly, according to the propagandists. This follows from an internal ministry email sent at 6:57 p.m. on August 10, 2015, under the subject line: "Analysis of the burned OSCE vehicles." The attachment contains a protocol, according to which the "Department of International Resources" had distributed the story of alleged Ukrainian arsonists in social networks. The protocol lists about two dozen blogs that picked up this version of the story and distributed it. According to their analysis, the story reached up to 1.3 million users through the Russian VK social network alone.


so that's one benefit of Minsk to them, have propaganda advantage so can blame Ukraine for violating it all day long, claim they are violent imperialists when its a shitty agreement anyway


------


https://www.csmonitor.com/World/Passcode/2014/0617/Ukraine-election-narrowly-avoided-wanton-destruction-from-hackers-video
	That wanton destruction began four days ahead of the national vote, when CyberBerkut, a group of pro-Russia hackers, infiltrated Ukraine’s central election computers and deleted key files, rendering the vote-tallying system inoperable. The next day, the hackers declared they had “destroyed the computer network infrastructure” for the election, spilling e-mails and other documents onto the web as proof.


These the guys who rigged the U.S. election maybe? Putin says they were "criminals."


but this is one way they could rig Dontsesk election obviously

-----

www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA618343

A second ceasefire agreement, negotiated under OSCE auspices at Minsk in February
2015 and known as Minsk II, is currently in place in eastern Ukraine. But the
ceasefire is imperfectly observed; Ukraine remains unable to control its border with
Russia, and Russian resupply of the separatists continues. Some analysts are
predicting further escalation of tensions in the coming months as prelude to a
renewed Russia-backed push to create a land bridge between the Russian border and
Crimea. Others believe that Russia does not have the wherewithal to expand the
conflict zone substantially but will continue to engage in low-intensity conflict in the
Donbass region.


Having made multiple trips to the Ukrainian front line in recent months, one of the
experts at our event made the following observations pertaining to the ambiguous
war in Ukraine:


- Unmanned aerial vehicles and remotely piloted vehicles are all over the
battlefield and are indispensable for operational intelligence and tactical
targeting. The Russians have now solved and practiced the linkage between
these two activities, with only about 10-15 minutes separating drone
reconnaissance and strike missions.

- Russian separatists also make extensive use of horrific violence in order to cow
populations. Russian separatists have engaged in abductions, torture,
assassinations, massed killings, rapes, and execution of prisoners—while
videotaping and putting much of these activities on the internet.

...

- The main battle tank, protected by reactive armor, remains central to high-
intensity combat; deep armored raids are prevalent on the dispersed
battlefield. Reactive armor defeats most single-warhead infantry-fired anti-tank
weapons. Few NATO nations have tandem anti-tank warhead missiles capable
of penetrating Russian reactive armor (particularly that on the T-90 tank).

- Russia has introduced superior body armor and body armor piercing
ammunition, which can defeat normal infantry when combined with night
vision and snipers.

- Russian artillery and multiple-rocket launchers have utilized advanced
munitions. In combination with target acquisition capabilities provided by
remotely piloted vehicles, such munitions have caused 85 percent of all
casualties in Ukraine and have proven their ability to reduce battalion-size
units to combat ineffectiveness in a single strike.


Meanwhile, Trump is still "looking into" reports that his campiang gutted giving Ukraine weapons. But he loves the Marines!


and ya know why do you need all this fancy stuff to get past tank armor


they should just tie a stick of thermite to a quadracopter and have it go plug up the gun

so next time it fires it blows itself up

otherwise its just a big thing of armor that can't shoot anyone


------


http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a632253.pdf
	The  long
-term  consequences  of  Russia’s
  exploitative  ethnic  strategy
  in  Ukraine  
are yet to be seen. As of the beginning of September 2015 it appears as though violence 
in the Donbas is subsiding, with the Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko begrudgingly 
accepting  the  terms  of  the  Minsk  II  agre
ement.
233
  The  predicted  separatist  counter
-
offensive toward Mariupol and Slovyansk has yet to materialize. The most likely result of 
the  current  stalemate  is  another  frozen  conflict  along  Russia’s  periphery,  but
  NATO’s 
initial 
refusal 
(or inability) to become directly involved in the Ukraine crisis may end up 
being a stroke of incredible luck. Russia can ill
-afford further drags on its bank accounts 

72
in  the  form  of  another  needy  breakaway  region.  Western  sanctions  remain  in  place,  and  
oil  has  fallen  well  below
  the  $110-a-
barrel  price  tag  required  to  keep  the  Russian  
government  solvent.
234
  As  Russia  drifts  into  recession  there  may  be  enough  impetus  to  
spark another round of anti-Putin demonstrations, endangering the regime.


Is this whats going on

Putin doesn't want his people to know his strat is failing


so have Donald Trump get blackmailed into lifting sanctions to save regime?


Putin   is   doing   an   end   run   around   the   West   which   ‘
condemns   any   
application of force by the state but does not take note of force if it comes 
from   ‘activists,
’   ‘social   organizations’   or   ‘the   people
.’ That   Western   
failure opens the way for those using Putin’s tactics to use them ever more 
widely.


right another way Minsk agreement helps them

"oh was that ceasefire agreement really the DRP or was it just someone sooo angry at these ~~naszis~~ in ukraine!"


so under Minsk they either have to eat that or recognize DRP

have to recognize them in some capacity to say the violated agreement

------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Daily_Signal
	The Daily Signal is an American political journalism news website founded in June 2014. The publication focuses on politics, policy, and culture and offers political commentary from a conservative perspective. It is published by conservative think tank The Heritage Foundation.


weird... daily signal russian propaganda or not?


http://dailysignal.com/2016/10/20/i-dont-have-anyone-left-what-life-is-like-for-refugees-in-ukraine/
	More than two and a half years since the war in Ukraine began, and more than 17 months after the Minsk II cease-fire was signed, life remains a daily struggle for survival for the 1.7 million Ukrainians who fled the conflict.

	They are what the United Nations defines as “internally displaced persons,” or IDPs. The term “refugee” is technically limited to people who leave their home country due to war or other disasters.

	A 2016 report by the Internal Displacement Monitoring Center pegged the number of Ukrainian IDPs at 1.7 million people. The U.N. estimates that 3.7 million Ukrainians have been affected by the war, 3.1 million of whom still require direct humanitarian assistance.

	...International aid groups like the U.N. World Food Programme are working with Ukrainian partner groups on the ground on both sides of the conflict to ease the humanitarian crisis. But international funding is drying up as the world’s media attention pivots to the war in Syria and the EU’s refugee crisis.

	Moreover, aid groups in Ukraine have to constantly fight against a perception in the Western media that the war in Ukraine has ended, and that the cease-fire has calmed the fighting.

	“All the media is in Syria, and all the funding is there,” said Krystyna Kovalenko, communications assistant for the U.N. World Food Programme in Ukraine. “This is a forgotten war.”

	The War Is Not Over

	Combat is still ongoing in eastern Ukraine, and in villages scattered throughout the war’s “gray zone”—the no man’s land between the entrenched positions of Ukraine’s military and combined Russian-separatist forces—the situation remains too dangerous for more than 1 million people to return home.


------


http://kulturen-des-wir.de/en/magazin/its-time-to-make-new-plans
	Currently, Ukraine is one of the ten countries with the largest number of internally displaced persons. In spite of the 2015 ceasefire agreement (Minsk II), signed by the government heads of Ukraine, Russia, Germany, France and the separatist leaders, the guns have not been silent since the outbreak of the war.

	Almost three years ago, when Donetsk came under separatist control, you fled and moved to the southern Ukrainian city of Kryvyi Rih. How did you reach this decision?

	In the spring of 2014, the first administrative buildings in the city were occupied. This made me very uneasy, since I had participated in pro-Ukrainian demonstrations. I always wanted Donetsk to remain a Ukrainian city. We left before combat actions occurred. My husband teaches at the University of Commerce in Donetsk, and the university administration decided to evacuate the university and move to Kryvyi Rih.

	Have you found a new home in Kryvyi Rih?

	To be honest, I don’t think I’ll spend my whole life here. Before, I used to think: when Donetsk is again under Ukrainian control, I’ll go back and help rebuild my hometown. But more time passes, the less hope I have. Now I dream of living in a larger city, in Lviv in the west or in Kiev. But these are for time being only dreams, not plans, since flats there are very expensive.


hear that a lot... no hope, dreams


hmm, maybe another reaons they make it violient, promote looting, rape is to force out everyone who would vote for Donbas to stay in Ukraine


	In your photographic work, internally displaced persons play an important role. As part of the project ​“Foreign Homeland – Refugees in their own land” which was sponsored in 2015 by n-ost and the ifa, you portrayed internally displaced persons. What interested you in them?

	At the beginning of the war, refugees were heavily stigmatized. There was this stereotype that they were pro-Russian, lazy and passive, and didn’t defend their homeland against the separatists. People refused them both housing and work. I portrayed them so as to tell different stories about them; to present them as people who are doing something useful for the society. It was important for me to show that they, too, are Ukrainians, just as the inhabitants of other regions of the country.


could be kindof where that sentiment comes from? idea that leaving Donbas you are leaving it to the Russians


	Does this also reflect your own position as an internally displaced person?

	Yes, of course! Today I know that you have to continue to develop, every day. I’ve taken part in pro-Ukrainian actions in Donetsk. I’ve very deliberately chosen to live in Ukrainian-controlled regions of my homeland because Donetsk, once it was occupied by pro-Russian separatists, became foreign to me. And when I came to Kryvyi Rih, I was confronted for the first time with the negative reactions to internally displaced persons and their stigmatizing presentation in the social media. That was a shock. I realized that I could rely only on myself. 

	Does the Ukrainian state do too little to support refugees?

	Even today there’s still no national aid programme for refugees. When the war broke out in 2014, the state neither helped with the evacuations nor provided information. That’s why I founded a group on the social networks to support those who are disappointed and perhaps think the Ukrainian state doesn’t need them at all. The group, ​“We Are from Donbass – Self-Help”, tries with all available means to help and to provide information.


interesting, maybe Ukraine gov realizes that and doesn't want all pro-Ukraine to leave Donbas? but alternative is to force their people to live in a hellhole, they lose either way. Either their people suffer or they leave and Donbas joins Russia.


is that how they "rig the election?"


https://www.csmonitor.com/World/Europe/2017/0505/Why-many-Ukrainians-think-it-s-time-to-give-up-on-Russian-occupied-region
	Why many Ukrainians think it's time to give up on Russian-occupied region

	The region of Donbass is under Russian control, even though Ukrainian politicians are unwilling to legally recognize the region as occupied by Russia.


	Minks, Belarus—Leonid Androv, an electrician from Kiev, was drafted into the Ukrainian Army and spent a year fighting Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine after the conflict broke out in 2014. Now, like many other Ukrainians, he is ready to accept that those lands are lost.

	“The Russians are in charge there and they are methodically erasing everything Ukrainian. So why should I and impoverished Ukraine pay for the occupation?” said Mr. Androv.

	Long unthinkable after years of fighting and about 10,000 deaths, Ukrainians increasingly are coming around to the idea of at least temporarily abandoning the region known as the Donbass, considering it to be de facto occupied by Russia.

	This would effectively kill the Minsk peace agreement brokered by Germany and France, which aims to preserve a united Ukraine. The Minsk agreement is still firmly supported both by the West and Russia, as German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Russian President Vladimir Putin affirmed at their meeting this week.


seemed like it supported a divided Ukraine?

would be interesting if this guy was a Russian propagandist


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-25182823
	Since April 2014, 9,553 people have been killed in eastern Ukraine, including 2,000 civilians. Another 22,137 have been wounded and 1.1 million others externally displaced.


------


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/feb/14/avdiivka-frontline-ukraine-war-russia-backed-separatists
	During the Obama years, Kiev could count on steady support from Washington over the conflict in the east of the country, which Russia fuelled by funnelling fighters and weapons across the border. But with Trump’s repeated focus on improving relations with Russia, there is a worry in Ukraine that the country could get thrown under the bus in the service of a grand deal with Putin.

	...However, he had tough words for “idiots in expensive suits sitting in Kiev” who called for renewed military offensives in the region, believing instead that a political solution was required to halt the loss of life.


hmmm


does "political solution" = Russia gets Crimea, Donbass?

I guess they are war weary by now

that the strategy? wear them out? get them to leave, take territory?



------

http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/31/europe/ukraine-fighting/index.html
	The Russian Foreign Ministry also expressed concern over what it calls the deteriorating situation in the Donbass.

	It said Ukrainian troops "continue to conduct offensive operations to seize positions held by self-defense forces, including in the suburbs of Donetsk. Heavy weapons, including heavy artillery and multiple launch rocket systems, are being actively used to shell residential areas.

	"According to the Minsk Package of Measures of February 12, 2015, such weapons should long since have been withdrawn from the contact line."


Russia likes to invoke Minsk agreement?


	The Russian statement said there are civilian casualties, a water plant and a chemical factory have lost power, and miners lives were in danger.

	The Russian Foreign Ministry warned a humanitarian and environmental disaster could take place. The two cities about 15 kilometers apart each have about 37,000 residents, according to a Ukrainian census.


http://www.newsweek.com/russian-hackers-shut-ukraine-power-grid-415751
	Russian Hackers Shut Down Ukraine’s Power Grid
	By Riley Walters On 1/14/16


------


http://www.newsweek.com/nolan-peterson-how-world-war-three-starts-559670

whos Nolan Peterson? seems sketchy


------



http://www.interpretermag.com/provocations-proxies-and-plausible-deniability/
	Those relationships would have been at much greater risk had Russia invaded Ukraine with marked military units. Instead, by invading Crimea with unmarked troops and denying the presence of any Russian military forces until after the event, Vladimir Putin provided the essential space to maintain face. No leaders have been willing to cut their losses unless they absolutely have to. The invasion of Crimea was treated as a future possibility by European and American diplomats long after it was clear, within the first 24 hours of the “little green men” arriving at airports and administrative buildings, that Russia had begun a military invasion of sovereign European territory.

	Knowing that an opponent has little or no interest in military action means that an aggressor only has to grant them the ability to save some face. This was tested and proved with tragic consequences in Syria where Putin and Assad allowed the war-weary and disinterested West to back down from military action with the utterly hollow triumph of the agreed removal and destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal (which neither stopped the killing by conventional, or as seen recently with the use of chlorine bombs, chemical means).

	Of course, if Western military action was a halfhearted threat against the Assad regime, then the prospect of Western military action against Russia was an absurd joke. Maintaining the bare minimum of deniability by merely removing insignia from uniforms, ordering soldiers not to tell people where they were from (which they sometimes did anyway) and denying everything repeatedly while acting at great speed, Putin was able to carry out a complete occupation and annexation of Crimea while the clunky gears of diplomacy were struggling to produce a coherent, yet appropriately tactful response. Afterwards, seeing as no NATO force was going to launch an assault on Sevastopol to retake it for Ukraine, Putin was comfortable enough to admit there had been Russian troops involved.


So this is important, how they think

They only need Trump to sign an agreement where he and Fox News can at least pretend it brings peace



------

http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/the-times/vladimir-putin-ordered-plot-to-seize-half-of-ukraine/news-story/aa9dba0d5e431067fa40feb73c91ee7f
	The Ukrainian intelligence service claims to have captured Kremlin agents operating deep within territory not embroiled in fighting, as telephone intercepts were published revealing a Moscow plot to seize half the country.

	Two agents were based in the Dnipropetrovsk region, 150 miles from the conflict between pro-western government forces and Russian and rebel troops in eastern Ukraine. The intelligence service alleged that the agents were supervised by Moscow and had established groups advocating “for the creation of the ‘Dnipropetrovsk People’s Republic’ ” that would join Russia.

	Another group was intercepted at Andronivka, about 60 miles from the front line, transporting a rocket-propelled grenade launcher, antipersonnel mine and ammunition.

	The activities were a continuation of the hybrid warfare methods used to annex Crimea and create an insurrection in Ukraine’s eastern Donetsk and Luhansk regions, intelligence agents said.

	On Tuesday the Ukrainian embassy in London published telephone intercepts from the aftermath of Kiev’s bloody uprising against its pro-Russia president in 2014. President Putin wrested control of Crimea from the new western-leaning government and covertly sent troops into the eastern regions.

	The audio appears to capture Sergey Glazyev, a top adviser to Mr Putin, instructing paid Russian sympathisers to organise protests and seize government buildings across Russian-speaking areas of Ukraine.

	“I have direct instructions to raise the people in Ukraine, wherever we can. So, we need to bring people out onto the streets ... and do it as soon as possible,” Mr Glazyev appears to say. “Because, do you understand it, the president has already signed the order, the operation has started, and we are informed that the military men are already moving out.”

	...Mr Glazyev appears to tell Russian sympathisers to seize administrative centres in Kharkiv, Odessa and Zaporizhia, all outside the conflict zone. Kharkiv is an important industrial city, Odessa is a key port and Zaporizhia is home to Ukraine’s largest nuclear power station.

	“The people should gather in the square and ask Russia to help against Banderists [slang for Ukrainian nationalists]. The specially trained personnel should knock the Banderists out from the building of the regional council, and then they should gather a regional council and create an executive authority to take control of the militia,” Mr Glazyev allegedly says in one call.


"allgedly says"? its a fucking phone call

something off with this


https://www.google.com/search?q=Sergei+Glazyev+Putin+audio+prosecutors&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8#q=Glazyev+Ukraine+call+

Western media basically doesn't cover this at all?


------


http://www.ecfr.eu/article/commentary_the_glazyev_tapes_getting_to_the_root_of_the_conflict_in_7165
	Russia watchers have been intrigued by the recent email leak of Vladislav Surkov – Russia’s adviser responsible for policies towards Ukraine and Russia’s satellite states in northern Georgia. The so-called “Surkov Leaks” have reinvigorated the discussion of Moscow’s involvement in the war in Ukraine and the emergence of “people’s republics” in the east of the country. The leaks confirm the Kremlin’s involvement in the armed conflict in the Donbas, and make clear that fueling the conflict in east Ukraine is just one part of Moscow’s broader policy for undermining the Ukrainian state

	...Despite the importance of the tapes and their revelations, they have largely been ignored by Western media outlets and think-tanks. This may be due to suspicions that the published records were tampered with, or that they do not reveal the full story. It is, however, unlikely that these recordings are mere fakes. The published conversations are held between interlocutors whose voices can easily be identified through audio verification and cross-referencing.


ya what's going on

	The Glazyev Tapes are important because they provide the first direct evidence for what earlier empirical research had already indicated: that circles within the Kremlin had been actively fanning social conflict in Ukraine several weeks before it turned into an armed confrontation between paramilitary groups and armed forces. Nikolay Mitrokhin and Anton Shekhovtsov emphasised the ultra-nationalist ideological motivations of the Russia-supported activists in eastern Ukraine, whereas the Glazyev Tapes outline the financial remuneration that the Kremlin and its directed groups provided to pro-Russian “anti-fascists.”

	The findings from the Glazyev Tapes should not only transform the public narrative about the “Ukraine Crisis” but also the Western approach to the Minsk Agreements too. In particular, the West should reconsider its insistence on Ukraine quickly fulfilling the political aspects of the Minsk Agreements. Instead, emphasis should be placed on Russia returning the occupied territories to Ukraine. The EU should neither pressure Ukraine to seek a dubious compromise with Russia, nor should it link the prolongation of sanctions to the entire body of the Minsk Agreements, i.e. also to its political parts.

	This sort of action is justified by the fact that the Glazyev Tapes illustrate that the social rationale for far-reaching new political rules in the Donbas, as envisaged in the Minsk Agreements, is slim. A popular Western interpretation of the concessions to the separatists in these Agreements had been that the fact of a grass-roots insurgency in the Donbas should be reflected in its future status. Yet, the Glazyev Tapes now illustrate that the east Ukrainian “Russian Spring” was, from the beginning, not as popular a phenomenon as it had seemed. If one acknowledges Moscow’s involvement in Ukraine, and the imperial rather than local dimension of the uprising, then it becomes clear that the Minsk Agreements need to be revisited.


so if I remember right Minsk agreement is:

1. We will remove Military forces eventually (so, never)
2. Hold elections before giving back Donbas to Ukraine


so their occupation can just force everyone out until either Donbas is in ruins and giving back to Ukraine ends up being a burden or everyone leaves expect pro-Russian separatists basically and it joins Russia


Better plan would be to just force Russia out and keep sanctions


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_sanctions_during_the_Ukrainian_crisis

sanctions for invading Ukraine, not occupying territory

you can't let them invade, completely destroy the region, devestate/displace millions of people, shrug and give it back and get away with it


maybe better deal, lift sanctions after rebuilding? force them to give aide? apologize?

get them to admit to everything, sparking the protets, having Yanukavich as stooge, provide hard evidence

then sanctions lifted :)


------

hmmm

they know whatever "deal" Trump makes it will be regarded with suspicion... what are they planning?


------

https://www.rt.com/op-edge/262777-ukraine-refugees-donbass-war/
	RT:The shaky truce continues to be violated... Who is to blame for that?

	WS: Our organization is dealing with the humanitarian consequences of the conflict; we are not there to monitor the conflict itself. We’re trying to deal with the suffering of the civilian population in areas both under the control of the government in Kiev, but also in areas not under the control of Kiev. We have offices in Lugansk, in Donetsk, we’re active there, but we’re also active in the rest of Ukraine trying to help the response to the needs of the most honorable of the displaced people 


so Minsk lets them blame "both sides" and not provocations by Russian intelligence?


------

http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-oe-golinkin-ukraine-humanitarian-crisis-20150102-story.html


Lev Golinkin saying Kiev causing crisis?


http://foreignpolicy.com/author/lev-golinkin/

he's very down on Ukraine

http://www.jewishbookcouncil.org/author/lev-golinkin

from Soviet union


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lev-golinkin/heinous-ideological-enemy_b_8992630.html
	Threat to American civilians? In 1983, the Soviet high command thought a NATO war exercise in Europe was cover for a nuclear missile attack and came perilously close to launching a preemptive strike of its own. If you are an American over age 33, you came within minutes of being wiped off the map. How’s that for uncomfortable?


the old "blame communism and not the KGB" schtick


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lev-golinkin/an-old-war-a-new-war-the-_b_7167226.html
	A likely flashpoint for the deterioration of Minsk II isn’t along the front lines, but rather in the government-held cities of Kharkiv and Odessa. Both have sizable Russian-speaking populations which, if not openly pro-separatist, at least share sympathies with them and with Russia, and are not sold on the Kiev government. Both cities are steeped in the Soviet cult of WWII; both have had an outbreak of bombings which has rattled authorities and locals alike. Most importantly, both have plenty of WWII veterans. 


this is weird

see this a lot I think?

In dossier too

says ethnic Russians are suspcts for spies, but seems like Russian spies are a lot of ethnicities


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lev-golinkin/ukraine-donbass-jim-crow_b_6464260.html
	One would expect a claim of such horrid abuse to be supported with ample evidence from a watchdog organization such as Amnesty International. It’s not. Amnesty’s 2007 report on Ukraine documents instances of attacks on Jews, Roma, and asylum seekers and migrant workers from Africa and Asia, yet fails to mention the widespread anti-Ukrainian apartheid implied by Dr. Motyl. But that was 2007. According to Dr. Motyl, “from 2010 to 2014, Ukraine’s Jim Crow South captured Kiev and began extending its norms to all of Ukraine.” Surely Amnesty’s 2011 report would take note of a horrendous system of persecution fanning out of the east and throughout the country. It doesn’t. 


Lev Golinkin wants you to know there is no anti-Ukranian apartheid in Donbas


but it seems like there is?


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/alexander-motyl/alexander-motyl_b_6414802.html
	Many journalistic accounts — as well as the Kremlin’s propaganda machine — depict the Russian-speaking population in eastern Ukraine’s separatist Donbas region and the Crimea as an aggrieved ethnic minority clamoring for nothing more than greater autonomy and cultural and language rights. Seen in this light, Kiev and ethnic Ukrainians are the victimizers. The Donbas and its Russians are the victims. To put the conflict in American terms, Kiev is white America and the Russian-speaking regions are black America. 


don't trust this either

it's the same as anywhere, republicans democrats, U.S. and China

get them to hate each other split, get them to fight, control both sides to destroy each other

	I remember meeting one such supremacist at a conference in Kiev in 1994. He insisted that the rights of Russians were persistently being violated in the Crimea. Were there too many Ukrainian schools?, I asked. No, he answered. Did Ukrainians dominate the media? No. Was he unable to speak Russian in public? No, again. What then was the problem? He finally fessed up: the very fact that Ukrainian existed in the Crimea was an offense. Indeed, I can think of no instance of a Russian speaker being discriminated against in either the Donbas or the Crimea since 1991.


they probably are, and is FSB or something


should see if they are trying to split Russia and the rest of the world


basically get Russians and rest of the world to hate each other, tell Russians they are persecuted, then they can use them as agent, motivated by hate


http://www.worldaffairsjournal.org/blog/alexander-j-motyl/anti-donbas-sentiment-growing-ukraine
	Anti-Donbas Sentiment Growing in Ukraine


by same guy

huh?


------


http://www.dw.com/en/fascinated-by-war-an-austrian-in-donbass/a-38705835
	When fighting broke out in eastern Ukraine, Benjamin F. connected with like-minded thrill seekers on Facebook, and joined them there. In his interview with Kurier, he described the Donbass region in 2014 as pure chaos. Many soldiers were regularly drunk. The Minsk Agreement turned fighting on the front into boring trench warfare "with alcoholics and junkies," he said.


whot the fuck is this guy

but claims "pure chaos"

	Benjamin F. moved on to Syria, fighting against the so-called "Islamic State" (IS) - first for the Kurdish YPG militia then for the Kurdish Peshmerga in Iraq, when he found YPG fighters too religious. "Everything is more alive where there is death," he said in the interview.

wtf

	"They went to Ukraine with a nationalist conviction to support Ukraine against Russia," Timo Vogt, a German photographer, told DW. Vogt accompanied Task Force Pluto to eastern Ukraine in 2016 to document foreigners in Donbass.


interesting

psychopaths working to support Ukraine against Russia


------

http://russialist.org/ukraines-ministry-of-internal-hatred/


Blaming Kiev for the refugee crisis?


------


http://www.newsweek.com/refugee-convoy-hit-rocket-fire-eastern-ukraine-265184
	Ukraine accused pro-Russian rebels on Monday of hitting a refugee convoy of buses with rocket fire near the eastern city of Luhansk, killing people trapped in the burning vehicles, but the separatists denied responsibility.


wierd all articles are like "Ukraine claims," nobody bothered to go corroborate, check themselves? are there any non KGB reporters in Ukraine at all?


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/aug/18/ukraine-refugees-die-as-convoy-hit-by-rockets

same thing, quote "both sides" but nobody checks, apparently?

it's like they don't want to bother reporting on Ukraine at all

	The US state department condemned the attack but said that it could not confirm who was responsible. "We strongly condemn the shelling and rocketing of a convoy that was bearing internally displaced persons in Luhansk and express our condolences to the families of the victims," spokeswoman Marie Harf said. "Sadly, they were trying to get away from the fighting and instead became victims of it."


apparently U.S. state department couldn't either?


-----


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/War_in_Donbass#Counter-insurgency_forces
	At least fifty pro-Ukrainian volunteer units have been formed and fought against the Donbass People's Militia and other insurgent groups.[625] These forces include the Donbas Battalion, Azov Battalion, Kharkiv Battalion, and Oleh Lyashko's militia.[626] Some of these units work under contract with the National Guard of Ukraine.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right_Sector


maybe its this:

lock Ukraine's own military out of Donbass with Minsk
create or infiltrate crazy paramilitareies in Donbass
chaos and horrible fighting, millions displaced
only ones left are Russian separatists
Vote to split from Ukraine

then they get a land bridge to Crimea or something

and also might see it as "punishing" Ukraine for trying to throw-off Russian control.


------


http://foreignpolicy.com/2015/10/19/ukraines-abandoned-soldiers-russian-belarusian-volunteers/

It's like do they not want this to happen?

"fight for Kiev and you will be abandoned"

well maybe Ukraine military can come help them

oh wait

Minsk agreements


some of these people sound badass

coming from all over to kick KGBs ass

just on their own

meanwhile, Donald Trump is "looking into" why his campaign gutted weapons aide to Ukraine


even if this article Russian propaganda can still use I guess



http://foreignpolicy.com/2015/10/19/ukraines-abandoned-soldiers-russian-belarusian-volunteers/
	They Came to Fight for Ukraine. Now They’re Stuck in No Man’s Land.
	October 19, 2015


	When separatists started a war in eastern Ukraine, hundreds of Russians, Belarusians, and other foreigners came to Kiev’s defense. Now they’ve been abandoned.


	...KIEV, Ukraine — In May 2014, Rudolph, then a 19-year-old student in Gomel, in eastern Belarus, saw a post on Facebook that inspired him. “This is not a war of Russia with Ukraine; this is a war between freedom and lawlessness,” wrote Semen Semenchenko, a prolific Facebook blogger and the commander of the Donbass Battalion, a volunteer paramilitary unit fighting against Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine. 

	...“I saw it as my duty to defend Ukraine from Russian aggression which spreads to all neighboring countries,” the lanky former computer science student told me last month. He worked in the battalion’s radio communications unit as Ukraine’s forces took back Artemivsk, Lisichansk, and other towns while losing vast territories along the Russian border last summer. The conflict is now frozen, a quagmire that has claimed 6,800 lives.

	...The Ukrainian military has been closed off to foreigners so these sympathizers of the Maidan revolution have opted to join the ranks of the dozen or so volunteer battalions defending Ukraine against what was seen as an invasion by neo-Soviet master Moscow. Most seem to be driven by a deep aversion to President Vladimir Putin’s policies, which Russian fighters say have degraded their country’s economy and society and many Belarusians say are turning their country into a protectorate with a military presence.

	...Some are in especially dire conditions. Sergei, a young Russian opposition activist from the city of Ulyanovsk who fought for the Shakhtarsk Battalion — a volunteer force answerable to the Interior Ministry which was later dissolved for looting — was stopped in Dnipropetrovsk in July and given orders to leave the country. Scared of going back to Russia, he headed back to the conflict zone, where last month he stepped on a mine and nearly lost his legs. Migration officials brought his deportation injunction to the hospital’s intensive care unit just as his friends were crowdfunding for his surgery on Facebook.

	...Yulia has found herself in a similarly tight spot. The petite 20-year-old, who goes by the nom de guerre Valkrie, left her home in southern Russia to join the Maidan demonstrations shortly after they broke out. Later, she fought for the Aidar Battalion, a nationalist volunteer group that fought in Luhansk and was made part of the Ukrainian military this year but also has a reputation for human rights abuses. Yulia lost her passport in a fire during combat. Several months ago, she gave birth in Ukraine but cannot get a birth certificate or medical care for her baby.

	...Suspicious of the “humanitarian corridor” offered to encircle Ukrainian troops, Dmitry decided to break away from his unit and make his way out on his own terms with a small group of fellow fighters. He walked for five days before being able to call for assistance to reach Ukrainian ranks 50 miles away. He was lucky: Hundreds of those who listened to their commanders were either killed or captured and subjected to forced labor by rebels. The Ilovaisk massacre, which is still being investigated by Ukraine, is arguably the darkest hour for Ukraine’s Army — one that commanders blame on Russia’s misinformation but that soldiers like Dmitry put wholly on Kiev’s generals.

	Foreign fighters, like many of their Ukrainian comrades, blame poor military leadership for the ultimate failure to seize territory back from the rebels. Red tape prevented the enlistment of willing volunteers while unmotivated draftees were not given proper training and went numb with fear — and alcohol — upon reaching combat zones. Dmitry listed the Ukrainian forces’ bloodiest failures: “We lost the [Donetsk] airport; we lost Ilovaisk; we lost Debaltseve,” he said. And yet none of these defeats led to any change in the top command.

	...Russian media has made headlines of “foreign mercenaries” from the United States and Scandinavia making money by killing civilians for pleasure in “fascist” battalions run by right-wing extremists, particularly Right Sector and the Azov Battalion.

	The Russian reports are largely exaggeration, but they contain a grain of truth. Neo-Nazis, some coming from as far away as Sweden, have been openly active in Azov, an ultra-right outlet, which has a Wolfsangel on its emblem and which U.S. congressmen have called a “neo-Nazi paramilitary militia.” Right Sector, which was instrumental in the Maidan protests and now also has a political party, has regularly clashed with police and denounced the West as causing “moral decay” in Ukraine through “homosexual propaganda.”



------


wonder if Poroshenko is a spy? signed Minsk, didn't he?

one article says "signed at gunpoint"


http://foreignpolicy.com/2015/10/19/ukraines-abandoned-soldiers-russian-belarusian-volunteers/
	Filippov, a self-described Buddhist with a short, dry cackle for a laugh, went through naval academy in the Russian Far East and served in the Naval Infantry and later the SOBR, the special forces unit of the Russian Interior Ministry used in hostage operations and against organized crime. He said he was apolitical before the Ukraine conflict, but started following social media accounts of right-wing battalions as he became turned off by Russian state media coverage.

	“I thought, ‘What sort of nonsense is this?’” he said of the made-up stories on Russian state television, which, among other outlandish claims, accused the Ukrainian army of crucifying children. When he began to argue about the war in Ukraine, his friends accused him of being “for the Americans” and turned away from him, he said. “Finally, my girlfriend said, ‘Why don’t you go ahead and fight for these fascists?’”

	“I sat there and thought, ‘Why not?’” he said, crushing five sugar cubes into his green tea in a central Kiev café. He packed his special forces gear and went to Ukraine to join Right Sector, the group most vilified by Russian media. After spending time on the front lines near Donetsk, Filippov joined Azov, and he now works as an instructor at one of its training bases.


Are Russian propagandists actually handing me evidence of Russian infiltratin of right sector?

for free?

	“I thought if we defeat these quasi-separatists and Ukraine begins to flourish, Russians will see that Ukraine’s revolution was beneficial and start to demand changes from Putin,” he said. Through the conflict, his idealism about Ukraine’s new pro-Western leadership wore off, while far-right ideology made an impression. He started quoting Hitler and Nietzsche on his social media pages. Yet, he says, the only reason he is still in Azov is because he cannot work anywhere else while he is in the country illegally. He wants to move on to work for Ukraine’s special forces once he gets a passport.


hmmm


suddenly became a nazi who hates Putin

after working for Russia special forces?

------


Still basically the only article can find on the conflict that explains humanitarian situation well

http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-35990401


but not even


obviously constantly reported that Ukraine military and DRP types are fighting, violating ceasfire

but what about the pro-Ukriane paramilitaries in Donbas? how can you get them to ceasfire?


sounds like they just create chaos in Donbas


------


http://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/the-chaos-engulfing-eastern-ukraine
	Velyka Novosilka is an agricultural hamlet of sixteen hundred people, a charming and archetypically Soviet provincial town with nearly empty streets and an unusually large Lenin statue in its central square. It sits in a flat expanse of green farmland, an hour and a half by car from Donetsk, the regional capital and the epicenter of an insurrection against the government in Kiev. In Donetsk, and in towns to the northeast like Sloviansk and Kramatorsk, pro-Russian separatist militias have set up armed roadblocks and barricaded themselves in government buildings.


amazing the damage these people have done to the world


and it goes on and on and on...

	In recent weeks, the fighting in eastern Ukraine has taken on its own grinding, self-perpetuating momentum, independent of developments taking place in Kiev, Moscow, or the West. An array of militia forces on both sides launch attacks almost daily, and within each respective camp—insurgent and pro-Kiev—the proliferating paramilitary brigades do not necessarily communicate, or even care for one another. Earlier this week, on May 21st, a group of unidentified anti-Kiev insurgents launched an attack in Blahodatne that killed sixteen Ukrainian soldiers, a sign of their deadly strength. A few months ago, larger powers—whether the Kremlin or Ukrainian oligarchs who thought that a rebellion in the east could further their own interests—may have had some operational control or sway over the militias in eastern Ukraine, but that influence appears to have waned. The men with guns are the ones in charge now. That is a thoroughly depressing development for Ukraine. Even if there is a negotiated solution to the ongoing conflict—itself an unlikely development—it may not be sufficient to halt the cycle of violence across the Donetsk region.

	...On the morning of May 14th, around fifty people gathered in front of the regional administration building for a rally in support of the Donetsk People’s Republic, the imaginary breakaway state declared by separatist leaders earlier this month after a dubious “referendum” on May 11th. They chanted and made speeches, and, soon enough, the red-blue-and-black flag of the would-be republic hung from the flagpole out front. The handful of regional bureaucrats inside the building didn’t do anything to stop them; the police were similarly idle.

	...If that was Velyka Novosilka’s counter-revolution—the local version of the pushback against the Maidan protests that toppled the former President Victor Yanukovych, in late February—it was followed by a counter-counter-revolution, led by a small band of disgruntled residents. One of them, Sergei Komburov, a forty-three-year-old retired policeman, told me that his group, which numbered about ten, had come together even before the protests began in Kiev late last year. “We were against these authorities even before Maidan, and after Maidan nothing changed, all the corrupt people stayed the same,” he said.

	...In anticipation of resistance from the separatist forces, Komburov’s group had appealed for some extra muscle from pro-Kiev figures in the neighboring Dnipropetrovsk region, whose governor, the colorful oligarch Igor Kolomoisky, has helped to finance the creation of loyalist militias with his own cash. Around two dozen members of the Donbass Battalion, a volunteer paramilitary group formed in recent weeks to counter pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine, were dispatched to assist Komburov. The Donbass Battalion is one of a handful of new armed factions—militias with the mission of combating separatist insurgents and retaking territory for Kiev, but with unclear orders and legal authority. The Donbass fighters looked like a simultaneously ragtag and fearsome bunch: they wore mismatched black uniforms with balaclavas pulled over their heads, and carried an assortment of weaponry that ranged from Kalashnikov assault rifles to a Second World War-era carbine and a wooden crate full of grenades.

	Before the mission, I spoke with Semyon Semenchenko, the Battalion’s thirty-eight-year-old commander. He told me that he was a former officer in the Ukrainian Navy, who had years ago gone into private business in Donetsk. He decided to head the militia after he saw the government’s weakness and its inability to counter the creeping rebel takeover of the east. “They weren’t doing anything, so we decided to do it ourselves,” he said. “Our goal is the defense of our homeland, and that is of a higher order than following any one particular law.” It’s a troubling operating philosophy, given the murky, lawless nature of the conflict in eastern Ukraine, where militias under nobody’s control do battle with one another. The men fighting in paramilitary formations like the Donbass Battalion believe they can save Ukraine from disintegration—but they could be what pushes it deeper into internecine conflict.


Of course the New Yorker sides with the Bolsheviks

as usual

"defending your homeland from invaders? you're trying to start WAR!"


	...led by Semenchenko, the Donbass Battalion tore through the building, pushing the police officers inside to the floor. Semenchenko assembled them all and berated them. “We are fucking pissed off by your prostitute politics,” he said. “Who has forgotten their oath of loyalty to Ukraine? I will take your silence to be representative of your shame… There will be a Ukrainian state here, this is Ukrainian land.” A few minutes later, the Donbass men filed back onto the street, and rushed in the direction of the administration building. Locals stopped to watch as armed men in masks ran across the town square. One of Komburov’s men, Alexander, pulled down the flag of the Donetsk People’s Republic and ripped it up with his hands. “Fucking separatists,” he said. He reached for a Ukrainian flag he had brought in his car, and, as the afternoon turned into evening, the blue and yellow of Ukraine were raised over Velyka Novosilka once more.


	...The operation, he continued, was meant “to show these people that they took an oath to the state of Ukraine. All we’re asking is that they carry it out.” The town was essentially without any sense of authority. The chief of police had gone missing: he had taken a sick leave, then disappeared, and he wasn’t answering his phone.

	“There is no state,” Komburov said. “The police are demoralized, totally without discipline. They don’t know what to do.” Komburov and his men had called around and asked all the officers to come for a meeting that afternoon. About a third of them had shown up, and those whom I saw walking into the precinct looked confused and dispirited.

	...As the fight was underway, Semenchenko—or someone writing on his behalf—posted increasingly desperate messages to his Facebook page, declaring that his fighters had run out of ammunition, and pleading with the Ukrainian Army to send a personnel carrier to rescue a group of his men who had been pinned down by sniper fire inside a building. At one point, he proposed a prisoner exchange with a rebel battalion, and then threatened that, if any harm was done to his fighters who had been captured by the insurgents, he would bring “terror” to the residents of Korlovka. It was a disastrous and bloody day for the Donbass Battalion in their first showing in real combat; several rebel fighters were also killed. The clash, and the bullet-riddled bodies it left behind on the side of the highway, only added to the deepening sense that eastern Ukraine is slipping away—not even to Russia, or to some separatist republic, but to something darker, more corrosive, and impossible to reverse.


------

http://euromaidanpress.com/2016/12/02/glayzev-tapes-surkov-minsk-novorossiya/


bah


maybe tapes are fake?


why the fuck would they have a phone call about something like this

I don't get it

keep arguing "so you see this means we must abandon the Minsk agreements"

which is weird


http://euromaidanpress.com/2016/12/02/glayzev-tapes-surkov-minsk-novorossiya/

phone call or video tape? say phone call which is dumb, Putin knows his phones are tapped

don't get it


but if faked couldn't CIA just come out and say it? like they did last time? analyze audio?


instead we have fucking nothing

or could CIA verify?

don't see any reason not to assume Ukraine in same situation as U.S., their politicians working for KGB


------

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/01/ukraine-sabotage-trump-backfire-233446?platform=hootsuite


well actually you should retaliate for this too

after investigating which and how many Ukrainian officials are working for the Okhrana..

	They also disseminated documents implicating a top Trump aide in corruption and suggested they were investigating the matter, only to back away after the election. And they helped Clinton’s allies research damaging information on Trump and his advisers, a Politico investigation found.

	A Ukrainian-American operative who was consulting for the Democratic National Committee met with top officials in the Ukrainian Embassy in Washington in an effort to expose ties between Trump, top campaign aide Paul Manafort and Russia, according to people with direct knowledge of the situation.

	The Ukrainian efforts had an impact in the race, helping to force Manafort’s resignation and advancing the narrative that Trump’s campaign was deeply connected to Ukraine’s foe to the east, Russia. But they were far less concerted or centrally directed than Russia’s alleged hacking and dissemination of Democratic emails.

	Russia’s effort was personally directed by Russian President Vladimir Putin, involved the country’s military and foreign intelligence services, according to U.S. intelligence officials. They reportedly briefed Trump last week on the possibility that Russian operatives might have compromising information on the president-elect. And at a Senate hearing last week on the hacking, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said “I don't think we've ever encountered a more aggressive or direct campaign to interfere in our election process than we've seen in this case.”

	There’s little evidence of such a top-down effort by Ukraine. Longtime observers suggest that the rampant corruption, factionalism and economic struggles plaguing the country — not to mention its ongoing strife with Russia — would render it unable to pull off an ambitious covert interference campaign in another country’s election. And President Petro Poroshenko’s administration, along with the Ukrainian Embassy in Washington, insists that Ukraine stayed neutral in the race. 


don't have time for this...


do see Ukrainian officials saying dumb things get quoted in Russian propaganda a lot though, just like Pelosi

TODO: investigate Russian infiltration of Ukranian government


------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minsk_II#Signatories
    Swiss diplomat and OSCE representative Heidi Tagliavini
    Former president of Ukraine and Ukrainian representative Leonid Kuchma
    Russian Ambassador to Ukraine and Russian representative Mikhail Zurabov
    DPR and LPR leaders Alexander Zakharchenko and Igor Plotnitsky


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leonid_Kuchma
	Leonid Danylovych Kuchma (Ukrainian: Леонід Данилович Кучма, born 9 August 1938) is a Ukrainian politician who was the second President of independent Ukraine from 19 July 1994 to 23 January 2005. Kuchma took office after winning the 1994 presidential election against his rival, incumbent Leonid Kravchuk. Kuchma won re-election for an additional five-year term in 1999.

	His presidency was surrounded by numerous corruption scandals and the lessening of media freedoms. Corruption accelerated after Kuchma's election in 1994, but in 2000–2001, his power began to weaken in the face of exposures in the media.[3]


why is this the guy to sign the Minsk protocol?
