Supposedly, Donald Trump wants to make a "peace" deal for Ukraine based off the Minsk agreements:


https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/05/10/readout-vice-president-mike-pences-meeting-foreign-minister-pavlo
 	Vice President Mike Pence met with Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin of Ukraine today. The Vice President emphasized unwavering U.S. support for Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. He underscored that the Minsk agreements remain the most viable path towards peace.


These are the Minsk agreements:


https://www.frstrategie.org/publications/notes/the-political-and-military-implications-of-the-minsk-2-agreements-11-2016
	The political and military implications of the Minsk 2 agreements

	Over a year after the signing of the Minsk 2 agreements, on 12 February 2015, by Ukraine, Russia, France, and Germany, the peace resolution process is in a stalemate. Following the failure of several rounds of negotiations, Kyiv and Moscow are now entrenched in insoluble contradictions and uncompromising interpretations over the implementation of the agreements. On the warfront, the ceasefire is far from being respected, as firefights are constant on both sides of the line of contact between Ukraine and separatist Donbas.

	...Military positions have remained unchanged on the line of contact between the warring sides since the Battle of Debalsteve in mid-February 2015. Since then, the active phase of violence has gradually turned into a war of positions and trenches. Provocations and ceasefire violations (in the form of targeted shots from automatic rifle and artillery fire) have been recorded daily ever since; they have been concentrated mostly on the “usual” border hot spots in the Donetsk sector of the frontline.


https://www.forbes.com/sites/paulroderickgregory/2015/02/13/putin-comes-out-on-top-in-new-minsk-agreement/#5b4dfe54ede3
	Vladimir Putin was the winner of the Minsk II peace accords. Territory gained by the rebels in violation of Minsk I appears to be conceded; there is no deadline for the pulling out of Russian regular troops and mercenary forces; Kiev must pay the costs of occupied territory; and the self-appointed stooges of the Kremlin, who call themselves the leaders of the self-proclaimed “people’s republics,” have gained recognition and a say in constitutional change.


https://www.frstrategie.org/publications/notes/the-political-and-military-implications-of-the-minsk-2-agreements-11-2016
		...It would be wrong, however, to believe that Russia keeps complete control over the security and political life of the separatist entities. While Moscow keeps a strong grip on local leaders, on political representatives within the framework of the Minsk 2 working groups, and on primary military structures within the “People’s Republics”, it does not oversee relations between battalions and local politicians, which are left at the discretion of local “authorities” 

	This situation is potentially dangerous for Russia, as Moscow must maintain some clout over local security services and thus avoid a loss of control over swaths of separatist territories in the hands of “warlords” barricaded in their local strongholds. This partly explains why GRU and FSB troops have been conducting military operations in the secessionist entities since mid-2015: rebellious battalions and rogue commanders not responding to the official chain of command of local Interior security forces (Oplot) are systematically disposed of. Several targeted killings and other “cleansing” operations have been recorded in recent months within the ranks of separatist forces 


http://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/the-chaos-engulfing-eastern-ukraine
	Velyka Novosilka is an agricultural hamlet of sixteen hundred people, a charming and archetypically Soviet provincial town with nearly empty streets and an unusually large Lenin statue in its central square. It sits in a flat expanse of green farmland, an hour and a half by car from Donetsk, the regional capital and the epicenter of an insurrection against the government in Kiev. In Donetsk, and in towns to the northeast like Sloviansk and Kramatorsk, pro-Russian separatist militias have set up armed roadblocks and barricaded themselves in government buildings.

	In recent weeks, the fighting in eastern Ukraine has taken on its own grinding, self-perpetuating momentum, independent of developments taking place in Kiev, Moscow, or the West. An array of militia forces on both sides launch attacks almost daily, and within each respective camp—insurgent and pro-Kiev—the proliferating paramilitary brigades do not necessarily communicate, or even care for one another. Earlier this week, on May 21st, a group of unidentified anti-Kiev insurgents launched an attack in Blahodatne that killed sixteen Ukrainian soldiers, a sign of their deadly strength. A few months ago, larger powers—whether the Kremlin or Ukrainian oligarchs who thought that a rebellion in the east could further their own interests—may have had some operational control or sway over the militias in eastern Ukraine, but that influence appears to have waned. The men with guns are the ones in charge now. That is a thoroughly depressing development for Ukraine. Even if there is a negotiated solution to the ongoing conflict—itself an unlikely development—it may not be sufficient to halt the cycle of violence across the Donetsk region.

	...On the morning of May 14th, around fifty people gathered in front of the regional administration building for a rally in support of the Donetsk People’s Republic, the imaginary breakaway state declared by separatist leaders earlier this month after a dubious “referendum” on May 11th. They chanted and made speeches, and, soon enough, the red-blue-and-black flag of the would-be republic hung from the flagpole out front. The handful of regional bureaucrats inside the building didn’t do anything to stop them; the police were similarly idle.

	...If that was Velyka Novosilka’s counter-revolution—the local version of the pushback against the Maidan protests that toppled the former President Victor Yanukovych, in late February—it was followed by a counter-counter-revolution, led by a small band of disgruntled residents. One of them, Sergei Komburov, a forty-three-year-old retired policeman, told me that his group, which numbered about ten, had come together even before the protests began in Kiev late last year.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/War_in_Donbass#Counter-insurgency_forces
	Pro-government paramilitaries

	At least fifty pro-Ukrainian volunteer units have been formed and fought against the Donbass People's Militia and other insurgent groups. These forces include the Donbas Battalion, Azov Battalion, Kharkiv Battalion, and Oleh Lyashko's militia.


http://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/the-chaos-engulfing-eastern-ukraine
	...In anticipation of resistance from the separatist forces, Komburov’s group had appealed for some extra muscle from pro-Kiev figures in the neighboring Dnipropetrovsk region, whose governor, the colorful oligarch Igor Kolomoisky, has helped to finance the creation of loyalist militias with his own cash. Around two dozen members of the Donbass Battalion, a volunteer paramilitary group formed in recent weeks to counter pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine, were dispatched to assist Komburov. The Donbass Battalion is one of a handful of new armed factions—militias with the mission of combating separatist insurgents and retaking territory for Kiev, but with unclear orders and legal authority. The Donbass fighters looked like a simultaneously ragtag and fearsome bunch: they wore mismatched black uniforms with balaclavas pulled over their heads, and carried an assortment of weaponry that ranged from Kalashnikov assault rifles to a Second World War-era carbine and a wooden crate full of grenades.


http://foreignpolicy.com/2015/10/19/ukraines-abandoned-soldiers-russian-belarusian-volunteers/
	...KIEV, Ukraine — In May 2014, Rudolph, then a 19-year-old student in Gomel, in eastern Belarus, saw a post on Facebook that inspired him. “This is not a war of Russia with Ukraine; this is a war between freedom and lawlessness,” wrote Semen Semenchenko, a prolific Facebook blogger and the commander of the Donbass Battalion, a volunteer paramilitary unit fighting against Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine. 

	...“I saw it as my duty to defend Ukraine from Russian aggression which spreads to all neighboring countries,” the lanky former computer science student told me last month. He worked in the battalion’s radio communications unit as Ukraine’s forces took back Artemivsk, Lisichansk, and other towns while losing vast territories along the Russian border last summer. The conflict is now frozen, a quagmire that has claimed 6,800 lives.

	...The Ukrainian military has been closed off to foreigners so these sympathizers of the Maidan revolution have opted to join the ranks of the dozen or so volunteer battalions defending Ukraine against what was seen as an invasion by neo-Soviet master Moscow.

	...Some are in especially dire conditions. Sergei, a young Russian opposition activist from the city of Ulyanovsk who fought for the Shakhtarsk Battalion — a volunteer force answerable to the Interior Ministry which was later dissolved for looting — was stopped in Dnipropetrovsk in July and given orders to leave the country. Scared of going back to Russia, he headed back to the conflict zone, where last month he stepped on a mine and nearly lost his legs. Migration officials brought his deportation injunction to the hospital’s intensive care unit just as his friends were crowdfunding for his surgery on Facebook.

	...Yulia has found herself in a similarly tight spot. The petite 20-year-old, who goes by the nom de guerre Valkrie, left her home in southern Russia to join the Maidan demonstrations shortly after they broke out. Later, she fought for the Aidar Battalion, a nationalist volunteer group that fought in Luhansk and was made part of the Ukrainian military this year but also has a reputation for human rights abuses. Yulia lost her passport in a fire during combat. Several months ago, she gave birth in Ukraine but cannot get a birth certificate or medical care for her baby.

	...Suspicious of the “humanitarian corridor” offered to encircle Ukrainian troops, Dmitry decided to break away from his unit and make his way out on his own terms with a small group of fellow fighters. He walked for five days before being able to call for assistance to reach Ukrainian ranks 50 miles away. He was lucky: Hundreds of those who listened to their commanders were either killed or captured and subjected to forced labor by rebels. The Ilovaisk massacre, which is still being investigated by Ukraine, is arguably the darkest hour for Ukraine’s Army — one that commanders blame on Russia’s misinformation but that soldiers like Dmitry put wholly on Kiev’s generals.

	Foreign fighters, like many of their Ukrainian comrades, blame poor military leadership for the ultimate failure to seize territory back from the rebels. Red tape prevented the enlistment of willing volunteers while unmotivated draftees were not given proper training and went numb with fear — and alcohol — upon reaching combat zones. Dmitry listed the Ukrainian forces’ bloodiest failures: “We lost the [Donetsk] airport; we lost Ilovaisk; we lost Debaltseve,” he said. And yet none of these defeats led to any change in the top command.


http://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/the-chaos-engulfing-eastern-ukraine
	...Before the mission, I spoke with Semyon Semenchenko, the Battalion’s thirty-eight-year-old commander. He told me that he was a former officer in the Ukrainian Navy, who had years ago gone into private business in Donetsk. He decided to head the militia after he saw the government’s weakness and its inability to counter the creeping rebel takeover of the east. “They weren’t doing anything, so we decided to do it ourselves,” he said. “Our goal is the defense of our homeland, and that is of a higher order than following any one particular law.” It’s a troubling operating philosophy, given the murky, lawless nature of the conflict in eastern Ukraine, where militias under nobody’s control do battle with one another. The men fighting in paramilitary formations like the Donbass Battalion believe they can save Ukraine from disintegration—but they could be what pushes it deeper into internecine conflict.

	...As the fight was underway, Semenchenko—or someone writing on his behalf—posted increasingly desperate messages to his Facebook page, declaring that his fighters had run out of ammunition, and pleading with the Ukrainian Army to send a personnel carrier to rescue a group of his men who had been pinned down by sniper fire inside a building. 


https://www.frstrategie.org/publications/notes/the-political-and-military-implications-of-the-minsk-2-agreements-11-2016
	Conversely, Russia seeks to impose a political settlement of the conflict between Kyiv and the “authorities” in DPR/LPR. According to the Kremlin, local elections and the vote of the “special status” for the breakaway regions are preconditions to military stabilization. Moscow is also concerned that the “People's Republics” are not officially represented in either the Minsk Contact Group or the Ukrainian Rada. Finally, Russian diplomats accuse Ukraine of “playing for time” by legally pushing back the vote of the law on “special status” and the constitutional reform on decentralization.


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-31436513
	Ukraine ceasefire: New Minsk agreement key points

	9. Full Ukrainian government control will be restored over the state border, throughout the conflict zone

	To begin on the first day after local elections


https://web.archive.org/web/20140319090457/http://www.kansascity.com/2014/03/17/4896905/questions-surround-crimea-referendum.html
	KIEV, Ukraine — The talk on the streets of the Ukrainian capital Monday was all about Sunday’s referendum in Crimea, which saw a close to unanimous vote in favor of the Black Sea peninsula seceding from Ukraine and becoming part of Russia. 

	Officially, the joining-Russia option on the ballot attracted a healthy 97 percent support from the 83 percent of registered voters in Crimea who made it to the polls. The most repeated tidbit was the voter turnout in Sevastopol, long a pro-Russian bastion, where a reported 123 percent of registered voters are said to have cast ballots.


http://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/the-chaos-engulfing-eastern-ukraine
	...led by Semenchenko, the Donbass Battalion tore through the building, pushing the police officers inside to the floor. Semenchenko assembled them all and berated them. “We are fucking pissed off by your prostitute politics,” he said. “Who has forgotten their oath of loyalty to Ukraine? I will take your silence to be representative of your shame… There will be a Ukrainian state here, this is Ukrainian land.” A few minutes later, the Donbass men filed back onto the street, and rushed in the direction of the administration building. Locals stopped to watch as armed men in masks ran across the town square. One of Komburov’s men, Alexander, pulled down the flag of the Donetsk People’s Republic and ripped it up with his hands. “Fucking separatists,” he said. He reached for a Ukrainian flag he had brought in his car, and, as the afternoon turned into evening, the blue and yellow of Ukraine were raised over Velyka Novosilka once more.


While the Ukranian military is locked-out by the Minsk agreements, Russian special forces and intelligence services have created a mini-version of hell in the Donbass region:


http://www.ecfr.eu/article/commentary_the_glazyev_tapes_getting_to_the_root_of_the_conflict_in_7165
	Ukraine signed both agreements at gun-point, in the context of large military offensives of regular Russian troops near Ilovaisk in 2014 and Debaltseve in 2015.


https://www.frstrategie.org/publications/notes/the-political-and-military-implications-of-the-minsk-2-agreements-11-2016
	Russia’s role in the conflict, ranging from territorial instrumentalization to direct aid aimed at the survival of the separatist entities, is also relatively similar. In other words, the war in Eastern Ukraine has been created and artificially maintained from the outside, and Moscow bears total responsibility in the continuation of the conflict. This situation is especially convenient for the Kremlin, which continues to rely on the rhetoric of “plausible deniability” when it comes to the presence of Russian troops in occupied Donbas. The logic goes that Russia cannot (officially that is) be considered a direct perpetrator or a party to the conflict.


http://www.ecfr.eu/article/commentary_the_glazyev_tapes_getting_to_the_root_of_the_conflict_in_7165
	...earlier empirical research had already indicated: that circles within the Kremlin had been actively fanning social conflict in Ukraine several weeks before it turned into an armed confrontation between paramilitary groups and armed forces. Nikolay Mitrokhin and Anton Shekhovtsov emphasised the ultra-nationalist ideological motivations of the Russia-supported activists in eastern Ukraine, whereas the Glazyev Tapes outline the financial remuneration that the Kremlin and its directed groups provided to pro-Russian “anti-fascists.”


http://www.zeit.de/politik/ausland/2016-09/russia-propaganda-eastern-ukraine-separatists-e-mails/seite-5
	...But there is no ceasefire. In many cases, the OSCE experts can hardly tell who is firing at whom with missiles or shells. When a fire broke out in the OSCE motor pool on August 9, 2015, the rebel leadership in Donetsk reacted quickly, claiming that it was an arson attack against the observers by Ukrainian intelligence. A fabricated report was posted online – surprisingly quickly, according to the propagandists. This follows from an internal ministry email sent at 6:57 p.m. on August 10, 2015, under the subject line: "Analysis of the burned OSCE vehicles." The attachment contains a protocol, according to which the "Department of International Resources" had distributed the story of alleged Ukrainian arsonists in social networks. The protocol lists about two dozen blogs that picked up this version of the story and distributed it. According to their analysis, the story reached up to 1.3 million users through the Russian VK social network alone.


www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA618343
	Russia’s “Ambiguous Warfare” and Implications for the U.S. Marine Corps

	A second ceasefire agreement, negotiated under OSCE auspices at Minsk in February 2015 and known as Minsk II, is currently in place in eastern Ukraine. But the ceasefire is imperfectly observed; Ukraine remains unable to control its border with Russia, and Russian resupply of the separatists continues. Some analysts are predicting further escalation of tensions in the coming months as prelude to a renewed Russia-backed push to create a land bridge between the Russian border and Crimea. Others believe that Russia does not have the wherewithal to expand the conflict zone substantially but will continue to engage in low-intensity conflict in the Donbass region.

	Having made multiple trips to the Ukrainian front line in recent months, one of the experts at our event made the following observations pertaining to the ambiguous war in Ukraine:

	- Unmanned aerial vehicles and remotely piloted vehicles are all over the battlefield and are indispensable for operational intelligence and tactical targeting. The Russians have now solved and practiced the linkage between these two activities, with only about 10-15 minutes separating drone reconnaissance and strike missions.

	- Russian separatists also make extensive use of horrific violence in order to cow populations. Russian separatists have engaged in abductions, torture, assassinations, massed killings, rapes, and execution of prisoners—while videotaping and putting much of these activities on the internet.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/week-transcript-donald-trump-vice-president-joe-biden/story?id=41020870
	 I was also right about the fact that NATO, we're being taken advantage of by NATO countries, totally advantage of (INAUDIBLE)...

	STEPHANOPOULOS: Then why did you soften the GOP platform on Ukraine?

	TRUMP: I wasn't involved in that. Honestly, I was not involved.

	STEPHANOPOULOS: Your people were.

	TRUMP: Yes. I was not involved in that. I'd like to -- I'd have to take a look at it. But I was not involved in that.

	STEPHANOPOULOS: Do you know what they did?

	TRUMP: They softened it, I heard, but I was not involved.

	STEPHANOPOULOS: They took away the part of the platform calling for the provision of lethal weapons to Ukraine to defend themselves.

	Why is that a good idea?

	TRUMP: Well, look, you know, I have my own ideas. He's not going into Ukraine, OK? 


www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA618343
	- The main battle tank, protected by reactive armor, remains central to high- intensity combat; deep armored raids are prevalent on the dispersed battlefield. Reactive armor defeats most single-warhead infantry-fired anti-tank weapons. Few NATO nations have tandem anti-tank warhead missiles capable of penetrating Russian reactive armor (particularly that on the T-90 tank).

	- Russia has introduced superior body armor and body armor piercing ammunition, which can defeat normal infantry when combined with night vision and snipers.

	- Russian artillery and multiple-rocket launchers have utilized advanced munitions. In combination with target acquisition capabilities provided by remotely piloted vehicles, such munitions have caused 85 percent of all casualties in Ukraine and have proven their ability to reduce battalion-size units to combat ineffectiveness in a single strike.


While the Minsk agreement has the Ukranian military and Russian separatists ostensibly waiting for a "vote" the conflict is grinding away at the Donbass region:


https://www.frstrategie.org/publications/notes/the-political-and-military-implications-of-the-minsk-2-agreements-11-2016
	The latest (and impressive) such operation shed some light on the aborted attempts by DPR “President” Oleksandr Zakharchenko – backed by Moscow – to reassert control over the city of Yasinovota, the stronghold of rogue commander and leader of the “Vostok” battalion Oleksandr Khodakovsky. Without the direct support of Russian troops, Oplot forces have only limited military means of their own to retake territorial strongholds from local “warlords” (some of whom, including Khodakovsky, have become quite troublesome for Moscow). For their part, separatist leaders, including the political “elite”, are increasingly aware that they are all expendable, which contributes to increase internal violence and the scale of the grey economy. This situation is the corollary of a massive impoverishment of secessionist Donbas, now only surviving through the development of a war economy. 

	The grey area in Donbas is falling victim to the predation of the scarce remaining resources, turf wars between battalions, subsistence economy, and total institutional decay. Russia has no interest in rebuilding or developing the “Republics”, but instead has chosen to conduct a policy of large-scale economic dismantling aimed at making the cost of rehabilitation intolerable for Kyiv.


http://kulturen-des-wir.de/en/magazin/its-time-to-make-new-plans
	In spite of the 2015 ceasefire agreement (Minsk II), signed by the government heads of Ukraine, Russia, Germany, France and the separatist leaders, the guns have not been silent since the outbreak of the war.

	[Q:] Almost three years ago, when Donetsk came under separatist control, you fled and moved to the southern Ukrainian city of Kryvyi Rih. How did you reach this decision?

	[A:] In the spring of 2014, the first administrative buildings in the city were occupied. This made me very uneasy, since I had participated in pro-Ukrainian demonstrations. I always wanted Donetsk to remain a Ukrainian city. We left before combat actions occurred. My husband teaches at the University of Commerce in Donetsk, and the university administration decided to evacuate the university and move to Kryvyi Rih.


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-25182823
	Since April 2014, 9,553 people have been killed in eastern Ukraine, including 2,000 civilians. Another 22,137 have been wounded and 1.1 million others externally displaced.


http://dailysignal.com/2016/10/20/i-dont-have-anyone-left-what-life-is-like-for-refugees-in-ukraine/
	“I lived a normal life, honey … I’ve had hope for everything, and now I have no support and no hope for anything, for anything, honey,” Alexandra said.

	...“I don’t have anyone left,” Alexandra said. “I hope that the war will be over, and I will be provided with at least a little place for living. In the cemetery at Marinka I have two sons, a husband, mother, and sister buried. My home should be there.”

	...More than two and a half years since the war in Ukraine began, and more than 17 months after the Minsk II cease-fire was signed, life remains a daily struggle for survival for the 1.7 million Ukrainians who fled the conflict.

	They are what the United Nations defines as “internally displaced persons,” or IDPs. The term “refugee” is technically limited to people who leave their home country due to war or other disasters.

	A 2016 report by the Internal Displacement Monitoring Center pegged the number of Ukrainian IDPs at 1.7 million people. The U.N. estimates that 3.7 million Ukrainians have been affected by the war, 3.1 million of whom still require direct humanitarian assistance.

	...International aid groups like the U.N. World Food Programme are working with Ukrainian partner groups on the ground on both sides of the conflict to ease the humanitarian crisis. But international funding is drying up as the world’s media attention pivots to the war in Syria and the EU’s refugee crisis.

	Moreover, aid groups in Ukraine have to constantly fight against a perception in the Western media that the war in Ukraine has ended, and that the cease-fire has calmed the fighting.

	“All the media is in Syria, and all the funding is there,” said Krystyna Kovalenko, communications assistant for the U.N. World Food Programme in Ukraine. “This is a forgotten war.”

	The War Is Not Over

	Combat is still ongoing in eastern Ukraine, and in villages scattered throughout the war’s “gray zone”—the no man’s land between the entrenched positions of Ukraine’s military and combined Russian-separatist forces—the situation remains too dangerous for more than 1 million people to return home.

	...“It’s impossible to live there because of the fighting,” Valentyna said of her hometown. “We had to move away because of the constant shelling. It’s insanity.”


http://kulturen-des-wir.de/en/magazin/its-time-to-make-new-plans
	[Q:] Have you found a new home in Kryvyi Rih?

	[A:] To be honest, I don’t think I’ll spend my whole life here. Before, I used to think: when Donetsk is again under Ukrainian control, I’ll go back and help rebuild my hometown. But more time passes, the less hope I have. Now I dream of living in a larger city, in Lviv in the west or in Kiev. But these are for time being only dreams, not plans


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-35990401
	War in eastern Ukraine is now routine for the people still living there, and there is little cause for optimism, despite a ceasefire and a strong desire for peace.

	...Among the city's disproportionate number of pensioners, stories of destroyed houses and divided families are common.

	A stoical, cash-strapped woman of 62 blames Ukraine for the fighting and says her heart has "always been leaning towards Russia".

	But Yilena, 25, is visiting her family in Donetsk and is representative of a huge number of largely younger people who have left this territory.

	"There is no future here and no prospects," she says.


http://kulturen-des-wir.de/en/magazin/its-time-to-make-new-plans
	[Q:] Is there something that the stories you’ve collected have in common?

	[A:] The people I’ve portrayed are diligent and hard-working. They don’t take the position of the victim, they don’t just stand there. As one of my protagonists put it: “Our situation has forced us to become active. It’s clear that no one else will do anything for me. You can rely only on yourself.”

	[Q:] Does this also reflect your own position as an internally displaced person?

	[A:] Yes, of course! Today I know that you have to continue to develop, every day. I’ve taken part in pro-Ukrainian actions in Donetsk. I’ve very deliberately chosen to live in Ukrainian-controlled regions of my homeland because Donetsk, once it was occupied by pro-Russian separatists, became foreign to me. 


http://www.zeit.de/politik/ausland/2016-09/russia-propaganda-eastern-ukraine-separatists-e-mails
	The Battle Plan

	Two authors, one using the pseudonym "Artem" and the other using his presumed real name, Andrey Godnev, wrote an extensive paper in August 2015. The document, titled "Internal Information Policy Strategy in the Luhansk People’s Republic," (German translation here) was intended to serve as a manual for the rebels in control of portions of eastern Ukraine. According to the cover page, the 41-page document was written in "Luhansk-Moscow." In it, the authors use many examples to explain how the separatists should control reporting in newspaper editorial offices and at TV and radio stations. 

	...The Russian advisers recommend that the information ministry try to convey the eastern Ukrainian population's gratitude to the Russian president, using what they call "naïve stories, stories that underscore how grateful the residents of Luhansk are to Putin for what he has done and continues to do. Some examples: 'A grandmother knits socks for Putin,' 'Children paint Putin portraits,' 'A sculptor putting the finishing touches on a model for a Putin memorial, which he (…) intends to erect in Luhansk,' etc."

	Another option, according to the advisers, is to collect signatures from people making a direct appeal to President Putin to do things like provide the people of the Donbass region with Russian passports. If the signature campaign materializes, they add, it should praise the Kremlin for its strong ties to the people. "Then you can emphasize that the president has obeyed the will of the people." 

	Some journalists find it exciting not to remain neutral in their reporting, but to become involved in psychological warfare instead, says Dmitri R., who worked as an independent journalist in eastern Ukraine and was supposed to become a propagandist. He worked for Newsfront, the channel associated with the rebels. He quit his job when he realized how the regime was exploiting journalists. He is unwilling to use his real name, fearing reprisals. When asked how free he was to report on events in the eastern Ukraine war zone, Dmitri R. laughs bitterly: "Whenever I asked if I could use the material to record material independently, I was always given the same answer: This is not the time for journalism. Journalism is something for peace. For the war, which is also an information war, we need information soldiers. We truly regarded ourselves as information soldiers. And it made the work seem very special." 

	...Cultivating allies

	One of the names marked in green on the list is Marc Bartalmai, with the words "good friend" next to it. Marc Bartalmai is a pseudonym for Mirko Möbius, a man from the eastern German state of Saxony-Anhalt. A marketing professional, he has repeatedly attended the "Monday vigils against cuts in social services and warmongering," rendezvous for right-wing and left-wing radicals. When the war began in eastern Ukraine, Mr. Möbius went to the Donbass region. He began shooting films there – without support from Moscow, as he insists.

	In fact, Mr. Möbius's films portray the everyday routine of war exclusively from the perspective of the pro-Russian separatists. Hundreds of thousands of people have already clicked on his film "Ukrainian Agony" on the Internet. Most of Mr. Möbius's supporters are people who no longer trust the so-called mainstream media. They believe that Mr. Möbius is portraying a true picture of the war, a war waged by a fascist junta in Kiev against upstanding freedom fighters. When asked about his approach to his work and the censorship policy in the Donbass region, Mr. Möbius replied: "Let's not kid ourselves. We are in a propaganda war – over there and here in Germany."


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-35990401
	"Madness" is the one word Valentina uses to sum up the war.

	"You see I'm Ukrainian, and the Donbass (eastern regions of Ukraine) is my land. So it's like cutting me in half."

	And that is the reality. The very eastern fringe of Ukraine has been sliced in two. 


Meanwhile, while Trump is still "looking into" why his campaign gutted the GOPs promise to arm Ukraine, Russia is blaming Kiev for not giving up what's left of the Donbass: 


http://www.interpretermag.com/provocations-proxies-and-plausible-deniability/
	Those relationships would have been at much greater risk had Russia invaded Ukraine with marked military units. Instead, by invading Crimea with unmarked troops and denying the presence of any Russian military forces until after the event, Vladimir Putin provided the essential space to maintain face. No leaders have been willing to cut their losses unless they absolutely have to. The invasion of Crimea was treated as a future possibility by European and American diplomats long after it was clear, within the first 24 hours of the “little green men” arriving at airports and administrative buildings, that Russia had begun a military invasion of sovereign European territory.

	Knowing that an opponent has little or no interest in military action means that an aggressor only has to grant them the ability to save some face. This was tested and proved with tragic consequences in Syria where Putin and Assad allowed the war-weary and disinterested West to back down from military action with the utterly hollow triumph of the agreed removal and destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal (which neither stopped the killing by conventional, or as seen recently with the use of chlorine bombs, chemical means).


http://www.zeit.de/politik/ausland/2016-09/russia-propaganda-eastern-ukraine-separatists-e-mails
	This is the sort of manipulation the Moscow strategy document supports, suggesting that media reports convey the following underlying message: "'Ukraine is intentionally undermining the Minsk Protocol.' All reports (…) on violations by the Ukrainians against the agreed ceasefire must contain this assertion. The aim is to clearly imprint on the social consciousness that the Luhansk People’s Republic, the Donetsk People’s Republic and the Russian Federation are in favor of observation of the agreements, while Ukraine is opposed." 


https://www.rt.com/op-edge/262777-ukraine-refugees-donbass-war/
	[Russia Today]
	Question More

 	‘2 million Donbass citizens displaced - people desperate to join their relatives’ 

	...RT:The shaky truce continues to be violated... Who is to blame for that?

	WS: Our organization is dealing with the humanitarian consequences of the conflict; we are not there to monitor the conflict itself. We’re trying to deal with the suffering of the civilian population in areas both under the control of the government in Kiev, but also in areas not under the control of Kiev. We have offices in Lugansk, in Donetsk, we’re active there, but we’re also active in the rest of Ukraine trying to help the response to the needs of the most honorable of the displaced people 


https://www.frstrategie.org/publications/notes/the-political-and-military-implications-of-the-minsk-2-agreements-11-2016
	Due to the lack of genuine progress, the international community has gradually abandoned the concept of full respect of the ceasefire and of the military clauses of Minsk 2. This carries the risk of inexorably tilting towards a political (and thus Russian) interpretation of the February 2015 agreements, at the expense of Ukraine. This approach has been gradually pushed forward in order to avoid a complete breakdown of diplomatic negotiations, all the while forcing Ukraine to further compromise on its territorial integrity and the inviolability of its borders. On paper, the Minsk 2 process implies that Ukrainian sovereignty is now conditional to the application of the political clauses of the agreements, and therefore negotiable depending on Kyiv’s efforts and compromises. This strengthens Russia's position in the conflict resolution process, including its commitment to the political interpretation of the agreements, while projecting most of the blame of successive diplomatic failures on Kyiv.


What might the Russians be planning for Trump and his "dealmaking" for "peace" in Ukraine? One hint comes from Russian propagandist Byron York and House Intelligence Committee Rep. Crawford:


http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/byron-york-intel-report-wont-end-russia-hacking-fight/article/2609959
	Byron York: Intel report won't end Russia hacking fight
	by Byron York

	Suddenly," that is, after Democrats lost a presidential election. Nunes' not-so-subtle point was that Russian hacking did not become a hair-on-fire issue for Democrats until it affected their political fortunes.

	Beyond that, though, some Hill Republicans believe the Obama administration has concealed and/or manipulated intelligence at key times in the last few years. Those episodes do not give Republicans any confidence that the Obama Intelligence Community will be straight with them this time. 

	...In light of all that, it's fair to say that Republicans have near zero confidence that the administration will play the Russia election hacking intelligence straight. If anything, Republicans have a healthy respect for the ability of IC and White House officials to manipulate intelligence and spin things their way.


http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/byron-york-at-this-rate-it-wont-matter-if-trump-colluded-with-russia/article/2623874
	Byron York: At this rate, it won't matter if Trump colluded with Russia
	by Byron York

	The problem, for the confederation of Democrats, pundits, Obama holdovers, and NeverTrumpers who hoped to see that result, has been that so far, after a lot of investigating, no evidence has emerged that collusion actually occurred. Although they allowed that previously unknown proof could always emerge, last week some of the lawmakers most deeply involved in the investigation, and most closely in touch with the intelligence community and law enforcement working on the probe, conceded that there appeared to be no there there.

	...The Trump-Russia case could become the ultimate illustration of the old Washington saying that it's not the crime, it's the cover-up. In this case, there might be no underlying crime at all.

	...First, the White House portrayed the firing as 1) not Trump's doing, and 2) not related to the Russia investigation.

	Then Trump told NBC's Lester Holt that he had in fact decided to fire Comey because "this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made up story."


http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/byron-york-how-pundits-got-key-part-of-trump-russia-story-all-wrong/article/2617802
	Byron York: How pundits got key part of Trump-Russia story all wrong

	by Byron York 

	A key talking point in the theory that Donald Trump and the Russians conspired in the 2016 election is the allegation that last summer, during the Republican convention, the Trump campaign changed the GOP platform to weaken its stance on Russia's aggression in Ukraine.

	It's been cited many, many times. The only problem is, it's all wrong.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	CRAWFORD: Director Comey, are you familiar with an article, July 18, 2016, from The Washington Post entitled "Trump Campaign Guts GOP's Anti-Russia Stance on Ukraine"?

	COMEY: I'm not familiar with that article. I don't -- I don't remember it.

	CRAWFORD: I'd ask (you) now to consent to add this to the record, just for your edification, Director. There's an allegation contained in that article that at a National Security Committee platform meeting Trump staffers wrote an amendment to an amendment that stripped out platform's call -- call for providing, quote,"Lethal defensive weapons," and replace it with softer language, calling for, quote, "Appropriate assistance."

	Are you familiar with a March 18, 2017, story in the Washington Examiner entitled "How Pundits Got Key Parts of the Trump Russia Story All Wrong"? Are you familiar with that?

	COMEY: I don't think I am.

	CRAWFORD: I'd ask you now to consent to add that to the record, and also for your edification I'll go to some of the -- the meat of that story. There -- are you aware of an allegation that Trump staffers gutted the Ukraine plank of the platform?

	COMEY: Am I aware of the article on that?

	CRAWFORD: Are you aware of any -- anything of that nature, the article or any -- any activity that -- that (inaudible)?

	COMEY: Do you want to talk about anything -- I'm willing to comment on whether I've seen different things in the media. I don't want to talk about anything beyond that.

	CRAWFORD: OK. So, then, say you're not aware of the final platform that retained all of the language from the original platform, plus the portion of the amendment offered by the platform committee member?


According to Crawford and York, Trump and the GOP actually strengthened their stance on Ukraine when they backtracked on supplying arms, since they added "tough language" like this section:


http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/byron-york-how-pundits-got-key-part-of-trump-russia-story-all-wrong/article/2617802
	Not only that, the later, final platform contained a few additional words on Russia and Ukraine that weren't in the original draft. To the first passage cited above, after "from the Baltic to the Caucasus," the GOP platform committee added this:

		We support maintaining and, if warranted, increasing sanctions, together with our allies, against Russia unless and until Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity are fully restored. We also support providing appropriate assistance to the armed forces of Ukraine and greater coordination with NATO defense planning.


Trump's campaign added a new commitment to maintain sanctions until Ukraine's "territorial integrity is fully restored." Apparently, the deal in mind is for Russia to "give back" the regions it claims to control (Crimea, and apparently Donbass too, but I'm not even sure if they admit that) in exchange for sanctions being lifted.

But Russia officially declaring these territories as belonging to Ukraine doesn't mean much--they already do. Nor would withdrawing Russian forces--Russian propagandists and intelligence agents have already shown they can keep a civil war going for years.

Russia's territorial claims are only a part of it. Besides the implications for nuclear proliferation:


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Budapest_Memorandum_on_Security_Assurances
	The Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances refers to three identical political agreements signed at the OSCE conference in Budapest, Hungary on 5 December 1994, providing security assurances by its signatories relating to Belarus's, Kazakhstan's and Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The memorandum was originally signed by three nuclear powers, the Russian Federation, the United States of America, and the United Kingdom. China and France gave somewhat weaker individual assurances in separate documents.

	The memorandum included security assurances against threats or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan.


The real damage is from the human cost. The world shouldn't allow an intelligence agency to invade a peaceful country, kill and displace millions of people, then get away with it because they claim to withdraw. Nor should you expect them to fully withdraw--as a general rule, they don't stop fomenting conflict so long as they believe they won't face personal consequences. Their limits are what they think is plausibly deniable, what they can get away with. And Trump lets them get away with just about everything:


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/week-transcript-donald-trump-vice-president-joe-biden/story?id=41020870
	 TRUMP: ...Just so you understand. He's not going to go into Ukraine, all right?

	You can mark it down and you can put it down, you can take it anywhere you want.

	STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, he's already there, isn't he?

	TRUMP: OK, well, he's there in a certain way, but I'm not there yet. You have Obama there. And frankly, that whole part of the world is a mess under Obama, with all the strength that you're talking about and all of the power of NATO and all of this, in the meantime, he's going where -- he takes -- takes Crimea, he's sort of -- I mean...

	STEPHANOPOULOS: But you said you might recognize that.

	TRUMP: I'm going to take a look at it. But, you know, the people of Crimea, from what I've heard, would rather be with Russia than where they were. And you have to look at that, also. 


The Russians have blackmail on Trump, and Trump has spent his entire life making deals only for himself. If the Russians offer him a "deal" on Ukraine that can be plausibly denied as a Russian handout, you should expect him to take it. Trump should not be trusted to make deals for our country, or any country.

That said, given the expectations about Trump, any deal he makes, fair or otherwise (although deals with the Russians are more often than not unfair by design), will inevitably be regarded with suspicion. Trump keeps complaining that the Russian "cloud" over his presidency makes it harder for him to make deals" for the country. This is entirely his fault. Maybe Mr. Trump should have decided that before buddying up with Russian intelligence.

The Russian "cloud" isn't going away. If Trump thinks he can't make deals for the country because of this, then he should resign. If he refuses, then maybe Congress should hurry up and fix this before the American people decide to fix it themselves.
