

------

https://archive.org/stream/TheWorldWasGoingOurWayTheKGBAndTheBattleForTheTheThirdWorld/The%20World%20Was%20Going%20Our%20Way_djvu.txt

	He had read the KGB file on the defection in Paris of the Kirov Ballet’s greatest dancer, Rudolf Nureyev, and had followed with personal outrage the planning of operations (happily never successfully implemented) to break one or both of Nureyev’s legs with the aim - absurdly expressed in euphemistic KGB jargon -of ‘lessening his professional skills’.


an insight into their mindset? dark humor, kindof relishing in ruining someone else's day


	...Grasping the extent of the KGB’s ambitions in the Third World has been complicated by the legacy of McCarthyism. Just as the fraudulent inventions of Senator JosephMcCarthy’s self-serving anti-Communist witch-hunt helped to blind liberal opinion to the reality of the unprecedented Soviet intelligence offensive against the United States, 29 so simplistic conspiracy theories of Soviet plans for world conquest made most non-conspiracy theorists sceptical of even realistic assessments of Soviet designs in the Third World. McCarthy and America’s other anti-Communist conspiracy theorists were, albeit unconsciously, among the KGB’s most successful Cold War agents of influence. Reaction against their risible exaggerations helps to account for the remarkable degree to which the KGB has been left out of Cold War history.


how McCarthyism helped the KGB. Like others accusing him of being an "unconscious" agent.


	...Such arguments found no shortage of supporters in the West as well as the Third World. Broadcasting on Radio Hanoi during the Vietnam War, the great British philosopher Bertrand Russell told American GIs that they were being used ‘to protect the riches of a few rich men in the United States’: ‘Every food store and every petrol station in America requires, under capitalism, the perpetuation of war production.’ Vietnam popularized around the world the idea of the United States as the leader of world imperialism, bent on crushing the freedoms of the Third World in the interests of Western capitalism of which it was the leading exemplar.


Bertrand Russell a KGB agent?


pg 40, goes on to talk about Watergate and CIA, KGB conspiracy theories about CIA assassinating Kennedy


	...Indira Gandhi was one of a number of prominent Third World leaders who were unconsciously influenced by disinformation fabricated by Service A (the FCD active-measures specialists) and who became obsessed by supposed CIA plots against them.


interesting--this why CIA doesn't like to assassinate people now? or do they actually want to do the right thing? (is that the right thing?)

principles, pragmatism


------



https://archive.org/stream/TheWorldWasGoingOurWayTheKGBAndTheBattleForTheTheThirdWorld/The%20World%20Was%20Going%20Our%20Way_djvu.txt
	The Middle East

	For much of the Cold War, Soviet policy-makers believed they had an in-built advantage in the struggle with the Main Adversary and its allies for power and influence in the Middle East. If Latin America was the United States’ ‘backyard’, the Middle East was that of the Soviet Union. Israel’s special relationship with the United States made its Arab enemies, in Moscow’s view, the natural allies of the Soviet Union. Gromyko and Ponomarev jointly denounced Israel and international Zionism as ‘the main instrument of US imperialism’s assault on Arab countries’. 1 Hatred of Israel multiplied hostility to the United States in the rest of the Middle East. 2 The dramatic loss of America’s confidence in dealing with the Muslim world after the fall of its ally, the Shah of Iran, and the rise of the Ayatollah Khomeini was epitomized by the decision of the Carter administration not to send any congratulations to Muslim leaders to celebrate the 1,400th anniversary of Islam in 1979, for fear that it would somehow cause offence. The Soviet Union, by contrast, despite its official atheism, flooded Arab capitals with messages of congratulation.


Carter a Russian spy? heard something like that before

book talking about how the KGB tries to use U.S. alliance with Israel to pit Muslim world against the U.S.


pg 139 talks about penetration into high levels of Syrian government


	Despite, or perhaps partly because of, Saddam Hussein’s fascination with the career of Joseph Stalin, he seems to have made Baghdad a more difficult operating environment for the KGB than Cairo or Damascus.


reading between the lines: Iraq one of the few nations not under their thumb? maybe way they had Bush take him out


pg 140

author seems to be talking about some kind of power play, especially over egypt, with KGB supporting Nasser and U.S. supporting Sadat, Nasser part of some grand plan of theirs


wanted to stop peace treaty between Egypt and Israel


	Zionist subversion’ was a particular obsession of Yuri Andropov who, as KGB Chairman, interpreted every protest by Jewish ‘refuseniks’ whowere denied the right to emigrate to Israel as part of an international Zionist conspiracy against the Soviet Union. In a stream of reports to the Politburo he insisted on the need for resolute action to ‘neutralize’ the most minor protests.


did Andropov actually believe this? seems like there was something very wrong with him, like he was from another planet


	...A KGB conference concluded absurdly in 1982 that ‘virtually no major negative incidents took place [anywhere] in the socialist countries of Europe without the involvement of Zionists’. Andropov insisted that even the sending of matsos (unleavened bread) from the West to Soviet Jews for their Passover celebrations represented a potentially serious act of ideological sabotage.


and they're still obsessed with Jews today


	...The unexpected surge of international terrorism in the early 1970s and the precedent set a few years before by the KGB’s use of Sandinista guerrillas against US targets in Central and North America 19 encouraged the Centre to consider the use of Palestinian terrorists as proxies in the Middle East and Europe. In 1970 the KGB began secret arms deliveries to the Marxist-Leninist Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP). 20 The secret was remarkably well kept. Though there were a series of Western press reports on support for the PFLP from Syria, Iraq and Libya, there were none of any significance on its Soviet connection. The KGB’s willingness to use other terrorist proxies was inhibited by fear that the proxies would fail to conceal its involvement 21 - just as during the second half of the Cold War it failed to implement any of its numerous and detailed plans for the assassination of KGB defectors for fear that it would be blamed for their demise.


Using terrorist proxies, fear of connection being shown


	The Centre appears to have regarded the two most active terrorist leaders of the later 1970s and 1980s, Ilich Ramírez Sánchez (better known as ‘Carlos the Jackal’) and Sabri al-Banna (better known as ‘Abu Nidal’), as mavericks with whom it was prudent to avoid all direct connection. Its judgement proved right in both cases. Carlos was a champagne terrorist with a passion for killing, high living and self-important revolutionary rhetoric. 24 As well as attacking European and US targets, the increasingly paranoid Abu Nidal became obsessed with the hunt for mostly imaginary Palestinian traitors, whom he subjected to horrific torture and execution. 25 While refusing to deal directly with either Carlos or Abu Nidal, however, Andropov was content for other Soviet bloc intelligence agencies to do so. With Andropov’s knowledge (and doubtless his blessing), East Germany became what its last interior minister, Peter-Michael Diestel, later called ‘an Eldorado for terrorists’. 26 By the mid-1980s, however, both Carlos and Abu Nidal had become such an embarrassment to their Soviet bloc hosts that their eastEuropean bases were closed down. Both continued to receive assistance from the Soviet Union’s main Middle Eastern ally, Hafiz al-Asad. Carlos later claimed, in a characteristic transport of semi-reliable rhetoric, to be ‘a senior officer of the Syrian secret service’. 27 Abu Nidal died in Baghdad in 2002, allegedly by his own hand, more probably murdered on the instructions of his former protector, Saddam Hussein. 


Soviets supporting crazed terrorists, but try to keep them away from KGB, prefer other Soviet states intel agencies instead. East Germany (where Putin was from) said to be "El Darado" for terrorists. 


------


Middle Eastern Terrorism and the Palestinians


	The precedent set by the KGB’s use of Sandinista guerrillas against US targets in Central and North America during the later 1960s 1 encouraged the Centre to consider the use of Palestinian terrorists as proxies in the Middle East and Europe. The man chiefly responsible for exporting Palestinian terrorism to Europe was Dr Wadi Haddad, deputy leader and head of foreign operations of the Marxist-Leninist Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), codenamed KHUTOR, 2 headed by Dr George Habash. On the day Israeli forces destroyed his family home in Galilee, Haddad had sworn that he would pursue the Israelis for the rest of his life.


So they try the "use terrorists" thing since it worked with Sandinistas, target PLOT, Dr. Wadi Haddad recruited to export terrorism to Europe. Hates Jews.


	In 1970 Haddad was recruited by the KGB as Agent NATSIONALIST. Andropov reported to Brezhnev in May:

		The nature of our relations with W. Haddad enables us to control the external operations of the PFLP to a certain degree, to exert influence in a manner favourable to the Soviet Union, and also to carry out active measures in support of our interests through the organization’s assets while observing the necessary conspiratorial secrecy.


Andropov intends to control terrorists for "interests," preserve "conspiratorial secrecy."


	One of Haddad’s reasons for becoming a KGB agent was probably to obtain Soviet arms for the PFLP. With Brezhnev’s approval, an initial delivery of five RPG-7 hand-held anti-tank grenade launchers in July was followed by the elaborately planned operation VOSTOK (‘East’), during which a large consignment of arms and ammunition were handed over to the PFLP at sea near Aden under cover of darkness. To prevent any of the arms and ammunition being traced back to the KGB if they were captured, the shipment consisted of fifty West German pistols (ten with silencers) with 5,000 rounds of ammunition; fifty captured MG-ZI machine guns with 10,000 rounds of ammunition; five British-made Sterling automatics with silencers and 36,000 rounds of ammunition; fifty American AR-16 automatics with 30,000 rounds of ammunition; fifteen booby-trap mines manufactured from foreign materials; and five radio-activated ‘SNOP’ mines, also assembled from foreign materials. The two varieties of mine were among the most advanced small weapons in the extensive Soviet arsenal, and, like some of the silencers, had never been previously supplied even to other members of the Warsaw Pact.



KGB arming terrorists, and this is part of how they influence them, I guess make them dependent on Soviet arms?


	A number of other PFLP operations against Mossad and CIA targets succeeded. In 1970 an individual codenamed SOLIST, who was being cultivated by the KGB residency inBeirut, came under suspicion of working for the Israelis after his brother was arrested in Cairo, charged with being a Mossad agent. SOLIST was kidnapped by a PFLP snatch squad, headed by Ahmad Yunis (also known as Abu Ahmad), chief of the PFLP security service in Lebanon, and brought to the Beirut residency for interrogation. Soon afterwards Yunis became a KGB confidential contact (though not, like Haddad, a fully recruited agent) with the codename TARSHIKH.


Terrorist imprisoned by Soviet asset state, suddenly he's a KGB agent


	Mitrokhin’s material gives no indication of what advice FCD ‘special actions’ experts gave Haddad about the PLFP hijacks. Proof that they did advise him on terrorist attacks, however, is provided by the file on operation NASOS: an attack on the Israeli tanker Coral Sea while it was carrying Iranian crude oil under a Liberian flag of convenience to Eilat. The KGB advised Haddad on both the method and location of the attack in the straits of Bab al-Mandab close to the island of Mandaran. On 13 June 1971 two PFLP terrorists, codenamed CHUK and GEK by the KGB, boarded a speed-boat on the coast of South Yemen and launched an attack on the tanker using three of the RPG-7 hand-held anti-tank grenade launchers supplied by the KGB in the previous year. According to the KGB post-operation report, between seven and nine rockets were fired, of which five hit their target. Though the Coral Sea was set on fire, however, it did not sink. CHUK and GEK made their escape to the coast of North Yemen. The head of the FCD, Fyodor Mortin, was sufficiently encouraged by the partial success of operation NASOS to recommend to Andropov afterwards that the KGB ‘make more active use of NATSIONALIST and his gunmen to carry out aggressive operations aimed directly against Israel’.


KGB directing terrorist activities


	Haddad’s terrorist operations, Andropov misleadingly referred to them instead as ‘special’ or ‘sabotage’ operations. ‘W. Haddad’, he reported, ‘is clearly aware of our negative attitude in principle towards terrorism and he does not raise with us matters connected with this particular line of PFLP activity.’ There was, however, no coherent dividing line between the terrorist attacks which ‘in principle’ the Soviet leadership opposed and the ‘sabotage operations’ which it was willing in practice to support. On 23 April 1974 Andropov informed Brezhnev that Haddad had requested further ‘special technical devices’ for his future operations:

		At the present time [Haddad’s section of] the PFLP is engaged in preparing a number of special operations, including strikes against major petroleum reservoirs in various parts of the world (Saudi Arabia, the Persian Gulf, Hong Kong and elsewhere); the destruction of tankers and supertankers; operations against American and Israeli representatives in Iran, Greece, Ethiopia and Kenya; a raid on the building of the Tel Aviv diamond centre, among other [targets].

	Andropov repeated his earlier assurances that, through Haddad, the KGB retained the ability ‘to control to some extent the activities of the PFLP foreign operations department, [and] to influence it in ways favourable to the Soviet Union’.


Andropov downplays that terrorism is bad, maintains claims of "favourable to the Soviet Union," puts them on missions to blow up tankers, operations against U.S. and Israeli reps, reading buildings around the world


	In June 1974 Andropov approved detailed arrangements for the secret supply of weaponry to Haddad and the training of PFLP Special Operations Group instructors in the use of mines and sabotage equipment. In September, Haddad visited Russia, staying with his wife, son and daughter in a KGB dacha (codenamed BARVIKHA-1). During discussions on his future operations he agreed to allocate two or three of his men to the hunting down of Soviet defectors.


Andropov brings terrorists to train in Russia, sends them off to hunt down Soviet defectors.


	The early stages of Carlos’s attack on the poorly defended Vienna OPEC headquarters in December 1975 went remarkably smoothly. All the oil ministers were taken hostage and the Austrian government gave in to Carlos’s demands for a plane to fly them out of the country. Haddad had instructed Carlos to fly around the world with the hostages, liberating most of the oil ministers one by one in their respective capitals in return for declarations of support for the Palestinian cause, but gave orders that the Saudi Arabian and Iranian ministers were to be executed as ‘criminals’. Carlos, however, failed to kill either and freed both in exchange for a large ransom. An outraged Haddad told Carlos that he had disobeyed orders, and dismissed him from his ‘operational teams’.


a complex sounding terrorist attack where they abduct a bunch of people and then free them, appears that KGB wanted the Saud and Iranian ministers executed, Carlos wanted money


pg 228

on support of PLO, training them, fighting with Israel


	Far from relegating the Palestinian problem to the sidelines, as Israel had intended, the war focused international attention on the need to find a solution. 58

	Finding a solution, however, ranked low in the Soviet order of priorities.


hinting at a deliberate Palestine-Israel split by Moscow?


------


https://archive.org/stream/TheWorldWasGoingOurWayTheKGBAndTheBattleForTheTheThirdWorld/The%20World%20Was%20Going%20Our%20Way_djvu.txt

Islam in the Soviet Union


Soviets hate Muslims for some reason

pg 315


	Public discussion of the deportations remained officially taboo until the final years of the Soviet era. As even Soviet analysts concluded, however, the experience of deportation and persecution, so far from weakening Islamic belief, actually reinforced it. The deportees who returned to the North Caucasus were the most religious group in Soviet society.


interesting, deported a lot of them--another "migration crisis" as a cover for spies?


a lot of what they do seems very forward thinking--kindof "seeding" the world with agents. Saw the same with Okhrana agents moving out with flight of White Russians, who went all over the world. Use tragedies to spark immigration, then use immigration as cover for spies.

Seems to be of the mind that just having long-term, deep cover agents everywhere is desirable, regardless of whether or not they have a specific mission for them in mind.


I wonder how "forward thinking" they were? could they have planned ahead of using Islam as a "weapon," even then?

thinking yes--the most important battleground for them is ideology, ideas, things like religion, and a lot of those change slowly. They would know even then it would be easy to use religious warfare to create conflict. Corraborating (I guess), HLI guy disdained religion, but said "symbolism" very important.


	Because SADUM was responsible for a majority of Soviet Muslims,
	its head was often referred to as the Grand Mufti. Both SADUM and the madrasahs which
	it administered in Tashkent and Bukhara were heavily penetrated by KGB agents. 9 Since
	only graduates of these madrasahs, which had a total enrolment limited to about eighty, 10
	were legally entitled to conduct religious services, the KGB thus had an informal right of
	veto over the admission of ‘undesirable’ Muslim clerics. Those identified as KGB agents
	in files noted by Mitrokhin include imams at mosques in such major Muslim centres as
	Tashkent, Dushanbe and Chimkent.


KGB infiltrating Muslim clerics


	SADUM was also used to provide cover for KGB agents travelling abroad.
	Between 1953 and 1970 (the only period for which Mitrokhin’s notes contain statistics),
	ten KGB officers and over fifty agents went on operational missions to Saudi Arabia on
	the pretext either of going on pilgrimage (Haj) to Mecca (a privilege allowed to very few
	Soviet Muslims) or of visiting Islamic theological schools. 17 In the 1970s at least one
	KGB agent, codenamed NASIB, was elected to a leading position in the World Islamic League.


Muslim KGB agents traveling troughout the world


pg 319

dispatch illegals to try to infiltrate and befriend Muslim resistance in Soviet union

later penetrating entourage of Pope John Paul II


Andropov wondering how Muslim protestors gathered without KGB notice


pg 320

Sufi brotherhoods penetrating Chechnya-Ingushetiya, they don't like the Soviets


Is this what KGB trying to do to U.S.? get Trump to crack down on Islam, create Islamist sleeper cells everywehre. Try to recreate conditions in Soviet Union in U.S.


pg 321

Soviets blow up holy rock, Muslims build pyramid 


	Reports from Azerbaijan and elsewhere in the Soviet Union 42 blaming Iran for an
	increase in ‘anti-social’ activity by Sunni as well as Shia Muslims cannot be taken entirely
	at face value. The KGB invariably tended to see foreign conspiracy as a major explanation
	for outbreaks of ‘ideological subversion’ within the Soviet Union. A special department
	was set up in the KGB Fifth Directorate ‘to fight the ideological subversion from foreign
	Muslims and the activities of the Islamic clergy’, as well as ‘to expose the negative aspects
	of religious observance’. 43 In September 1981 the Politburo adopted a resolution proposed
	by the KGB on ‘Measures to counter attempts by the adversary to use the Islamic factor
	for purposes hostile to the Soviet Union’. 44 An FCD directive approved by Andropov a
	month later instructed foreign residents ‘to devise and carry out offensive active measures
	to eradicate the anti-Soviet actions of hostile Islamic forces abroad, to expose their ties
	with Western special [intelligence] services, to bring a halt to their anti-Soviet actions, and
	to expose the contradictions and disagreements amongst the leaders of the Islamic
	movement and to use them in active measures’.


Soviets blame Islam on western ideological subversion


pg 323


	Abroad, the ambitious FCD programme to extend Soviet influence in the Islamic world rapidly degenerated into a damage limitation exercise designed to stifle as many Muslim protests against the war in Afghanistan as possible.


war in Afghanistan turned Muslim world against Soviets


pg 324

lots of corruption in middle east areas


	Corruption in the Muslim republics was condoned in Moscow.

	...A secret investigation into the ‘Uzbek Mafia’ revealed what has been described as ‘one of the largest cases of public office corruption in contemporary history’.


pg 325

	[President Carter’s National Security Adviser, Zbigniew] Brzezinski developed an Islamic ‘Kriegspiel’ against the Soviet Union ... The objective was to create an ‘Islamic bomb’ in the Soviet republics of central Asia. The idea took flesh when an official report was prepared in 1979. [I]t indicated that specialized, secret Muslim organizations should be created with the aim of undertaking subversive operations in our country.


blame Carter on "Islam bomb"?


pg 326

Chechens devout, resent Soviets, rebel

Dudayev leads rebellion


Yeltsin admin annexes, then "cold war" between Chechnya and Russia, then Russian invasion 1994, conflict continues
