notes on https://pastebin.com/e4qCs1AT

The Okhrana specialized in penetrating and influencing criminal and revolutionary organizations, and the Bolsheviks were both heavily penetrated and supported by the Okhrana. Lenin's behavior is consistent with being one of their agents, and Montefiore's assertion that Stalin could not have been an Okhrana agent because he was "receiving rather than giving intelligence" whenever he met their agents doesn't make much sense.

Brackman and Montefiore's take on the subject of Stalin being an Okhrana agent are interesting. Brackman argues that Stalin was one of their agents, and his book "The Secret File of Joseph Stalin" seems well-written and well-sourced, but the rest of his books are crazy-sounding or junk. Montefiore insists that Stalin was not an Okhrana agent, but his argument doesn't make sense. Reading their works suggests both Brackman and Montefiore are Okhrana agents (or KGB, FSB, or whatever you'd call them now), especially since historical revisionism seems to be a theme with them. Regardless, it seems clear that the Bolshevik revolution was just as much of an intelligence coup as it was a "people's revolution": The Okhrana specialized in penetrating and influencing revolutionary groups, there are strong continuities between the Okhrana and the Checka, NKVD, KGB (see:https://etd.ohiolink.edu/!etd.send_file?accession=ohiou1398772391), the Okhrana supported the Bolsheviks, and the Bolshevik leadership were Okhrana agents. It might be fair to say the Bolsheviks *were* the Okhrana.

There are some indications that the Tsar wanted to foment World War I (or a smaller conflict) possibly as an excuse to grab territory or secure a warm-water port. It remains an open question as to whether or not the Tsar knew of Artamonov and Apis' plot to assassinate Archduke Ferdinand. One way or another, it looks like the Okhrana had other ideas. Most of Europe opposed the Bolsheviks, but World War I and the "war weariness" afterward served as a "cover" for them to seize power with minimized foreign intervention.

Toward this end, the Okhrana would have wanted World War I to be as drawn-out and bloody as possible. Rachkovsky's influence operations in France "helped make World War I ... a bloody mess" as the historian Alex Butterworth puts it. And the actions of Ferdinand Foch, one of their suspected agents, are also consistent with this motive. His doctrine of "offensive to excess" mostly just caused pointless losses. There are also some indications that the Okhrana contributed to spreading the Spanish Flu at this time.

Foch's efforts to humiliate Germany, force them to secede territory, and make the Treaty of Versailles blatantly unfair contributed to outbreak of World War II. It is unclear who else sabotaged the treaty on the Okhrana's behalf, but it is clear they have long tried to downplay its role in creating the conditions for World War II. The Okhrana may have had other goals with the treaty as well: Keyne's prediction of "economic chaos" and Sally Marks assertion that the treaty did not "cause the Depression, the rise of Hitler, or World War II" are telling.

Past historical documents and present attempts at historical revisionism suggest the Okhrana were extensively involved in supporting Hitler and shaping his views. The origins and spread of fascism itself suggested that fascism, like communism (or specifically Marxism-Leninism), was a project of the Okhrana. And Hitler's "ideologue" Alfred Rosenberg, in particular, influenced Hitler both to conduct genocide against the Jews and to divert his forces away from Moscow. Confidence in his influence over Hitler may explain why Stalin decided to "ignore" Sorge's warnings of Operation Barbarossa.

Indeed, Hitler's invasion of the Soviet Union appears to have been key to Stalin's plans. Stalin had previously expressed concern that the Soviets "may lose Ukraine," but "liberating" Ukraine from what would have appeared to be a greater evil would bolster the Soviets' grip over that country. Indeed, we see this same pattern throughout the European the Pacific Asian theatres of the war: a mysterious cabal of anti-Bolshevik white Russians spread fascism throughout both Germany and Japan, who then take as much territory as possible before the Soviets intervene to "liberate" their conquered territory and introduce communism. In this sense, fascism served as a foil to communism, a strategy which likewise plays out in their propaganda. Just as Germany's expansionism gave Stalin an excuse to invade an occupy Europe, Japan's invasion gave Stalin an excuse to invade China.

The use of fascism, Germany, and Japan in such a "divide and conquer" strategy may explain why the Okhrana encouraged these countries to carry out so many atrocities, such as the Rosenberg encouraging the Holocaust or Hashimoto and others encouraging the Rape of Nanking. By painting the opponents of communism as the greater evil, they could draw sympathy to their cause, a tactic which can be seen bearing success in FDR's lend-lease program to the Soviets or Mao rallying the communists against the Japanese. This mirror's Putin's call to "unite with Russia against ISIS" today.

The use of "active measures" and influence operations in a divide and conquer strategy can also be seen in the Okhrana's operations in China since as early as the Xinhai Revolution in 1911. The circumstances surrounding the explosion leading up to the Wuchang uprising and Charles Emmerson's attempts at historical revisionism suggest that the Okhrana deliberately sabotaged the rebellion, possibly in an attempt to tip the scales such that rebellion would result in civil war. Regardless, the assassination of Song Jiaoren blighted hopes of a democratic solution and cemented civil war in China for the next 36 years. The circumstances surrounding the assassination and the subsequent attempts at historical revisionism by Emmerson, Fenby, Epstein, and possibly Backhouse suggest that the Okhrana either directly conducted or influenced other groups (such as the Chinese Assassination Corps) to carry-out the assassination. There are some indications that they also assassinated Yuan Shikai (particularly Bertram Lenox Simpson's suggestion that his death was "more than a coincidence"). Regardless, Yuan's decision to make himself emperor further fractured the country. Yang Du, who curiously supported Russian anarchism, Chinese factionalism, and Chinese policies in Mongolia that aided the Okhrana's influence operations there, also strongly pushed for Yuan's disastrous declaration of himself as emperor, and at least according to Simpson, Yuan "did not wish to be Emperor" and believed he was "misled" by his advisors.

Yuan's decisions and death directly lead to "warlordism" in China, which was perhaps no accident. The Soviets (which, given Lenin and Stalin's relationship with them, would have been controlled by the Okhrana after the Russian civil war) offered the Chinese conditional "assistance" to eradicate warlordism--the very problem they created. The Soviet's "assistance" clearly did not help the Chinese: despite the wishes of Sun Yat Sen, the Soviets used their involvement to spread Communist propaganda and indoctrinate China's future military leaders. Crucially, their involvement would allow the Okhrana further opportunities to recruit agents (and getting people to betray their own country, or rather, finding people who are willing to betray their country, seems to be a speciality of theirs). It is telling that suspected Okhrana agents like Wang Jingwei, Lin Biao, Zhang Zhizhong, Tan Zhenlin, and Borodin all contributed to killing millions of Chinese as well as helped to install Mao Zedong and promote his personality cult.

Rather than being a "communist ally" of Stalin and Khrushchev, it appears that Mao was a part of continued hostilities against the Chinese people. Mao fits the description of a "useful idiot," and one so confident in himself that he was almost certainly unable to realize he was a weapon against his own people. All signs indicate that the Okhrana intended to use Mao to kill as many Chinese as they could get away with. Stalin oversaw and participated in an extensive propaganda campaign to spread the agricultural pseudoscience of "Michurinism" or "Lysenkoism," readily adopted by Mao, which contributed to the Holodomor famine and the Great Chinese Famine. But Stalin clearly had no qualms with so-called "bourgeois" science, as evident in his campaign to steal nuclear secrets from the West and his use of Mendelian genetics in his biological weapons programs. The participation of suspected Okhrana agents Mikhail Kalinin and Olga Lepeshinskaya in the "Michurinism" propaganda campaign suggests using agricultural pseudo-science to cause mass-starvation may have been a long-term plan for the Okhrana.

Most of what is known about the Okhrana's past activities and their activities today suggest they are misanthropic and care only about growing their own power. Most of their known members appear to be the type who enjoy manipulating others, and this is borne out in their heavy use of influence operations. Some of their members, like Stalin, appear to be sadistic. Sarah Zielinski today is an interesting and disturbing example of what appears to be one of their agents of influence who has sadistic tendencies.

The Okhrana's practice of installing and influencing disposable "useful idiots" to wreak havoc on countries continues to this day. The actions of Yanukovych, for example, ultimately lead to the death of thousands of Ukranians and plunged the country into civil war. Since Putin has been interfering with elections in the West and around the globe, nations and intelligence services need to be cognizant of this tactic and have a back-up plan should one of these "useful idiots" be installed in their own country. Likewise, they must be cognizant of the Okhrana's historical adeptness in recruiting agents abroad, and that some people simply don't have a problem betraying their country, even when their actions lead to the deaths of millions of their own countrymen.
