To be finished soon. It looks like it started with an intelligence coup in the Okhrana:


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/books-and-monographs/okhrana-the-paris-operations-of-the-russian-imperial-police/5474-1.html
	Examination of the Okhrana invites comparison with its Soviet successors from Lenin's Cheka to Stalin's NKVD to the KGB. There are common threads as well as important differences. The Okhrana, like the Cheka, was an internal security and counterintelligence agency par excellence. Its foreign operations were essentially an extension of its domestic security mission.


https://books.google.com/books?id=X2eTBtFWQdUC&pg=PA30
	One wonders just how extensive the Okhrana operation was abroad. A police report from 1901 refers to a "great number of agents," and at the time of the Harting disclosures an ex-agent provided the press with a list of fifteen Paris operatives. These included former French, German, and Scotland Yard policemen. After the revolution, former Okhrana officials reduced to writing their memoirs argued that only a handful of agents had been stationed abroad, occasionally supplemented by flying squads out of Moscow and St. Petersburg. And yet the files of the Paris Okhrana office, which was the hub of Russian police operations in Europe, fill 216 boxes. These currently reside at the Hoover Institution and await their historian.


https://www.britannica.com/topic/Black-Hand-secret-Serbian-society
	Black Hand, byname of Ujedinjenje Ili Smrt (Serbo-Croation: Union or Death), secret Serbian society of the early 20th century that used terrorist methods to promote the liberation of Serbs outside Serbia from Habsburg or Ottoman rule and was instrumental in planning the assassination of the Austrian archduke Franz Ferdinand (1914), precipitating the outbreak of World War I. The society was formed (1911) and led by Col. Dragutin Dimitrijević; its members were primarily army officers with some government officials. Operating from Belgrade, it conducted propaganda campaigns, organized armed bands in Macedonia (before the Balkan Wars, 1912–13), and established a network of revolutionary cells throughout Bosnia. Within Serbia it dominated the army and wielded tremendous influence over the government by terrorizing officials; it became so powerful that its authority challenged that of the government.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dragutin_Dimitrijevi%C4%87
	Dragutin Dimitrijevićw, known as Apis (Апис), was a Serbian colonel. He was a leading member of a military group that organized the overthrow of the Serbian government in 1903. He personally organized and participated in the coup against King Alexander and his wife Queen Draga that resulted in their murders, though he was not present when they were killed. He was also the leader of the Black Hand group responsible for the assassination of Franz Ferdinand, Archduke of Austria in June 1914. The latter triggered the July Crisis which led to the outbreak of World War I.


http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/1991/eirv18n29-19910802/eirv18n29-19910802_036-background_to_the_crisis_the_ser.pdf
	Apis claimed that the removal of the Austrian Archduke Ferdinand, the heir-apparent to the throne, would reduce the danger of Austria declaring war on Serbia. He therefore engaged two men to kill Ferdinand at Sarajevo in August 1914. The confession reads: "I decided this definitely only after Artamonov gave me assurance that Russia would not leave us without protection if Austria attacked us. To Mr. Artamonov on this occasion I did not impart any information on my plans regarding the assassination. To make my demand for his opinion as to the attitude of Russia well founded, I pretended that our intelligence activities might be detected, so that this also might be made to serve as an excuse for Austria to attack us. Malobabic completed the mission I assigned to him. He organized and carried out the assassination. His principal aides were in my service. They had a small honorarium which I was sending them through Malobabic. Some of their signed receipts are in Russian hands, since I was receiving the money I needed for this work from Artamonov."

	In other words, the financial and political backing of the Russian General Staff was essential to the planned assassination that kicked off World War I, Whatever other agencies were involved, the Serbian nationalist Apis would not have taken on the job without knowledge of full Russian backup. 


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Danilo_Ili%C4%87
	He recruited Gavrilo Princip, Nedeljko Čabrinović, Vaso Čubrilović, Trifko Grabež, Muhamed Mehmedbašić, and Cvjetko Popović to assassinate Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria.

	They held out, but Ilić, who was picked up on a routine check, eventually broke down under pressure and named his fellow conspirators.


https://books.google.com/books?id=EmJODQAAQBAJ&pg=PT263&lpg=PT263&dq=Apis+Artamonov
	The Russian Embassy was an important element in the context. Before and during the first Balkan war--in which the Black Hand played a conspicuous role, organizing guerilla bands behind the enemy lines--the Russians gave financial and political support to the organization, as did Crown Prince Alexander. For a long time, not only the Russian military attache but the Ambassador, Hartwig, were in intimate contact with Apis. There is no suggestion that he personally pocketed any Russian funds, but the Russians looked upon him as their particular friend, if not quite their agent, and quite naturally tried to build him up in influence. Their success-with the help of the Black Hand's guerilla achievements in Macedonia--was altogether too brilliant. The Balkan wars dangerously inflated the prestige, the egos, and the recklessness of the Serbian officer caste. This was particularly the case with those who belonged to the Black Hand--starting with Apis.

	...Artamonov, the military attache, continued, however, to see his Serbian colleague and friend nearly every day. It was natural enough: they were conducting a joint secret-service operation across the nearby Austrian border, with the help of a chain of Serbian customs inspectors and frontier guards who had been recruited as secret operatives of Apis. Artamonov's contribution to the operation had been to furnish some $1600--an impressive sum by contemporary Balkan standards--toward financing the clandestine network that Apis was setting up on Austro-Hungarian soil, particularly in Bosnia.
	
	...According to former collaborators of Apis, Aramonov was fully informed about the subversive as well as the intelligence aspects of the project; whether he reported both of them to St. Petersburg and to Hartwig is not definitely established.


https://books.google.com/books?id=vQF099JYW_EC&pg=PA47&lpg=PA47&dq=Apis+Artamonov
	A good place to begin is with reactions to the events in Sarjevo. There has always been something suspicious about Russian denials of foreknowledge of the assassination plot. Russia's military attache in Belgrade, General Viktor Artamonov, was out of town on 28 June 1914, giving him a convenient alibi but a strange one, considering that the whole point of Archduke Ferdinand's ill-fated visit to Bosnia was to kick off Austrian military maneuvers in Herzegovina, which would have been of great interest to Russia's official military observer in Serbia. A Serbian army colonel close to Apis later claimed that Artamonov had given Apis a green light for the Sarajevo operation, telling him "Just go ahead! If you are attacked, you will not stand alone."


https://www.quora.com/To-what-extent-was-Russia-more-responsible-for-the-outbreak-of-WW1
	Of course the real test of Russian approval for the assassination was to follow. Austria, first politely, then insistently, requested a Serbian investigation of the crime, which clearly originated within Serbia. When that failed, Austria, along with Germany, turned to Russia, with the just request that Russia use its influence to prevail upon Serbia to investigate the crime. Russia’s foreign minister, Sazanov, flatly, and with provocative rudeness, refused to do so.

	Serbia had an absolute duty under international law to investigate any crime which originated in its territory. By refusing to do so, Serbia was intentionally instigating a war with Austria Hungary, and Sazanov knew this. Why would the Tsar’s government tolerate this action from its vassal state, if it did not want the war, that the Serbian refusal would certainly provoke? Is it unreasonable to suspect that if Russia was thus provoking a war in July of 1914, that it gave approval to the assassination attempt that led to the situation, the month before?


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexis_Nour
	Alexis Nour was a Bessarabian-born Romanian journalist, activist and essayist, known for his advocacy of Romanian-Bessarabian union and his critique of the Russian Empire, but also for controversial political dealings. Oscillating between socialism and Russian nationalism, he was noted as founder of Viața Basarabiei gazette.

	...During World War I, Nour agitated against any military alliance between Romania and Russia. He stood out among Germanophiles and local supporters of the Central Powers, agitating in favor of a military offensive into Bessarabia, and demanding the annexation of Transnistria. This combative stance was later overshadowed by revelations that Nour was spying for Russia's intelligence service, the Okhrana.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ilie_C%C4%83t%C4%83r%C4%83u
	Ilie V. Cătărău was a Bessarabian-born political adventurer, soldier and spy, who spent parts of his life in Romania. Leading a secretive life, he is widely held to have been the main perpetrator of two bomb attacks, which sought to exacerbate tensions between Romania and Austria-Hungary in preparation for World War I. Beyond his cover as a refugee from the Russian Empire, Ilie Cătărău was a double agent, working for both Russian and Romanian interests.

	By 1917, Cătărău was formally committed to anarchism and communism, allying himself with Bessarabia's Bolshevik insurgents.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roman_Malinovsky
	Roman Vatslavovich Malinovsky was a prominent Russian Bolshevik politician before the revolution, while at the same time working as the best paid agent for the Okhrana.


http://spartacus-educational.com/RUSmalinovsky.htm
	Bukharin wrote to Lenin claiming that when he was hiding in Moscow he was arrested by the police just after a meeting with Malinovsky. He was convinced that Malinovsky was a spy. Lenin wrote back that if Bukharin joined in the campaign of slander against Malinovsky he would brand him publicly as a traitor. Understandably, Bukharin dropped the matter. Nadezhda Krupskaya later explained: "Vladimir Ilyich thought it utterly impossible for Malinovsky to have been an agent provocateur. These rumors came from Menshevik circles... The commission investigated all the rumors but could not obtain any definite proof of the charge." Instead of carrying out an investigation into Malinovsky, Lenin made him his deputy inside Russia.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jacob_Zhitomirsky
	Jacob (Yakov) Zhitomirsky was a prominent Bolshevik best known for being a secret agent of the Okhrana.


https://books.google.com/books?id=6ZNuZ6fq1WoC&pg=PA536
	In 1911, Zhitomirsky finally fell under suspicion, but it was not his chief who suspected him. Lenin received a warning from Vladimir Burtsev. Now warnings from Burtsev were no small matter, for he was a self-constituted, one-man, counter-espionage agency. As some collect coins or stamps or feminine conquests, he collected spies. He it was who had shortly before exposed the incomparable Azev, director of the Fighting Section of the Social Revolutionary Party. Yet so sure was Lenin of his most trusted agent that he ignored the warning.

	A revolutionary bloodhound by vocation, Burtsev, one he had scented a spy, was not to be put off the trail. By 1913 he had gathered so much evidence that he sent Lenin an ultimatum. He would create a public scandal if trust were not withdrawn from this man. "If my charges are false, let him haul me before a revolutionary tribunal. There he will prove his innocence or I my charges."

	Alarmed at last, Lenin sent another "man of confidence" to take up the Zhitomirsky matter with Burtsev, and, at the same time, to discuss the whole problem of combatting the spies with which the Bolshevik movement was now obviously infested. The man whom Lenin sent was Roman Malinovsky!

	Malinovsky questioned Burtsev with strained interest. Who in the police or government was giving him his secret tips? what reasons had he for suspecting Dr. Zhitomisky? how could the Bolsheviks judge the reliability of such grave charges unless they were given the sources? what other Bolsheviks did he suspect?


https://books.google.com/books?id=N9mbl_xbWpkC&pg=PT259
	The Okhrana saw Lenin as a brilliant potential executor of the task demanded by the Emporor: the disintegration of the Russian Social-Democratic Labour Party. The enhancement of Lenin's career was the Okhrana's confidential priority.


http://www.oac.cdlib.org/findaid/ark:/13030/kt538nf189/entire_text/


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okhrana
	Formed to combat political terrorism and left-wing revolutionary activity, the Okhrana operated offices throughout the Russian Empire and satellite agencies in a number of foreign nations. It was concerned primarily with monitoring the activities of Russian revolutionaries abroad, including Paris, where Pyotr Rachkovsky was based (1884–1902).

	The task was performed by multiple methods, including covert operations, undercover agents, and "perlustration"—reading of private correspondence. Even the Foreign Agency served this purpose. The Okhrana was notorious for its agents provocateurs, including Dr. Jacob Zhitomirsky (a leading Bolshevik and close associate of Vladimir Lenin), Yevno Azef, Roman Malinovsky and Dmitry Bogrov.

	...The Okhrana used many seemingly unorthodox methods in the pursuit of its mission to defend the monarchy; indeed, some of the Okhrana’s activities even contributed to the wave of domestic unrest and revolutionary terror that they were intended to quell. Perhaps most paradoxical of all was the Okhrana’s collaboration with revolutionary organizations.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Hand_%28Serbia%29#Ideology
	The group encompassed a range of ideological outlooks, from conspiratorially-minded army officers to idealistic youths, sometimes tending towards republicanism, despite the acquisition of nationalistic royal circles in its activities (the movement's leader, Colonel Dragutin Dimitrijević or "Apis," had been instrumental in the June 1903 coup which had brought King Petar Karađorđević to the Serbian throne following 45 years of rule by the rival Obrenović dynasty). The group was denounced as nihilist by the Austro-Hungarian press and compared to the Russian People's Will and the Chinese Assassination Corps.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okhrana
	...For over twenty years, the Okhrana had focused on interfering with the activities of relatively small, and distinct, revolutionary groups. The Revolution of 1905, characterized by seemingly spontaneous marches and strikes, exposed the Okhrana's inefficacy at controlling mass popular movements. Not only did the Okhrana lack the capacity to prevent the mass movements of 1905, or even to contain them once they began, the Okhrana’s misguided attempts may even have worsened the unrest. D. F. Trepov, the Assistant Minister of the Interior in charge of police affairs, and P. I. Rachkovsky, now in charge of all domestic political police operations, attempted to mount an aggressive offensive against those they believed to be responsible for the unrest, namely zemstvo employees, in May 1905, but backed down three months later. In October of that year, Trepov again attempted a violent repression of the revolution only to call off the effort for lack of manpower. Since these attempts at repression never reached fruition, they only served to aggravate the already enraged Russian populace and to deepen their distrust of the Imperial government. Trepov’s replacement by P.N. Durnovo in late-October ushered in a period of even more vicious repression of the Revolution.

	...Just as the Okhrana had once sponsored trade unions to divert activist energy from political causes, so too did the secret police attempt to promote the Bolshevik party, as the Bolsheviks seemed a relatively harmless alternative to more violent revolutionary groups. Indeed, to the Okhrana, Lenin seemed to actively hinder the revolutionary movement by denouncing other revolutionary groups and refusing to cooperate with them. To aid the Bolsheviks at the expense of other revolutionaries, the Okhrana helped Roman Malinovsky, a police spy who had managed to rise within the group and gain Lenin’s trust, in his bid to become a Bolshevik delegate to the Duma. To this end, the Okhrana sequestered Malinovsky’s criminal record and arrested others candidates for the seat. Malinovsky won the seat and led the Bolshevik delegation in the Fourth Duma until 1914, but even with the information Malinovsky and other informants provided to the Okhrana, the police were unprepared for the rise of Bolshevism in 1917. Although the secret police had agents within the Bolshevik organization, other factors contributed to the Okhrana’s inefficacy at averting the events of 1917. Among these factors was the Deputy Minister of the Interior, General V. F. Dzhunkovsky’s ban on police spies within the military, a practice he found dishonorable and damaging to morale. While, initially, the beginning of World War I moved the Okhrana’s attentions from countering revolutionaries to countering German espionage, the focus quickly shifted back as it was revealed that the Germans were heavily funding Russian revolutionary groups in order to destabilize the nation. Despite the renewed attention, the February Revolution took the secret police, and the nation, by surprise. Indeed, the Okhrana’s persistent focus on revolutionary groups may have resulted in the secret police not fully appreciating the deep-seated popular unrest brewing in Russia.

	The Okhrana was identified by the revolutionaries as one of the main symbols of Tsarist repression, and its headquarters were sacked and burned on 27 February 1917. The newly formed Provisional Government then disbanded the whole organization and released most of the political prisoners who had been held by the Tsarist regime. Revelations of the Okhrana’s earlier abuses heightened public hostility towards the secret police after the February Revolution and made it very dangerous to be a political policeman. That fact, along with the St. Petersburg (now Petrograd) Soviet’s insistence on the dissolution of the regular Tsarist police force, as well as the political police, meant that the Okhrana quickly and quietly disappeared.


https://books.google.com/books?id=PY2RAgAAQBAJ&pg=PA81
	He reported only to Beletsky or Vissaironov, communicating with them either by a special telephone installed in his apartment, in private rooms of fashionable restaurants, or in their homes. Beletsky, Vissarionov and Martynov considered Malinovsky the 'pride of the Okhrana.'

	Lenin moved fro Paris to the city of Cracow, in the Austrian part of Poland near the Russian border, to make it easier for him to maintain contact with Malinovsky and other Bolshevik Duma deputies. ...Lenin insisted on the Menshevik-Bolshevik split, and Beletsky was just as strongly in favor of it. Lenin sent drafts of his speeches to Malinovsky, who took them to Beletsky or Vissarionov for review and minor corrections and delivered them in the Duma.

	But dark clouds began to appear over this Okhrana-Bolshevik symbiosis. Lieutenant-Colonel I.P. Vasiliev started a secret campaign, attempting to expose Malinovsky's ties to the Okhrana. He sent a number of anonymous letters to the Menshevik newspaper Luch, stating that Malinovsky was an Okhrana agent. The paper's editors ignored what they considered to be slanders, but rumors began to spread. Vasiliev then wrote an anonymous letter to Lidia Dan, the wife of the Menshevik leader F.I. Dan, offering to meet her secretly and prove that he was a high Okhrana official and that he had evidence of Malinovsky's duplicity. He suggested that Dan signify her agreement to this meeting by a certain newspaper advertisement; she ignored the offer.

	Koba, meanwhile, was hoping to expose Malinovsky for his own reasons. Early in November 1912 he want to Cracow to see Lenin, intending to inform him of Malinovsky's Okhrana ties. Upon his arrival Koba quickly recognized the futility of any attempt to convince Lenin of Malinovsky's treachery, as Lenin was far too fond of having Malinovsky as his mouthpiece in the Duma.

	...While waiting for an opportunity to destroy his rival, Koba, on Lenin's advice, worked on an essay entitled 'Marxism and the Nationalities Problem,' an enlargement of his earlier article. Lenin asked Bukharin and Troyanovsky to help Koba locate and translate related works by Austrian authors, since Koba knew no German, and he edited Koba's essay. The most striking feature of this essay was the attention it devoted to the Jews and the Jewish Bund: in all, there were 174 comments concerning Jews, all hostile. Again, Koba signed the essay K. Stalin.


http://www.goodreads.com/author/show/290287.Roman_Brackman


http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/19/books/19book.html
	Mr. Montefiore dismisses, perhaps for good, the theory that Stalin was an agent for the Okhrana, the czarist secret police. He spent far too much time in prison or exile, for one thing. On the occasions when he met with agents, Mr. Montefiore points out, Stalin was receiving rather than giving intelligence.


http://www.standard.co.uk/comment/comment/simon-sebag-montefiore-today-s-new-world-order-has-its-roots-in-the-events-of-1917-a3439971.html
	Simon Sebag Montefiore: Today’s new world order has its roots in the events of 1917

	Lenin founded the first secret police of modern times, the Cheka (later OGPU, NKVD, KGB and FSB)

	...The real lesson of 1917, expressed by Lenin, is the alchemy of power practiced by Putin and Trump: “Kto kovo?” — who controls whom?” 


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Allied_intervention_in_the_Russian_Civil_War
	The Allied intervention was a multi-national military expedition launched during the Russian Civil War in 1918. The initial goals were to help the Czechoslovak Legion, secure supplies of munitions and armaments in Russian ports, and re-establish the Eastern Front. After winning World War I, the Allies militarily backed the anti-Bolshevik White forces in Russia. Allied efforts were hampered by divided objectives, war-weariness after they just finished greater conflict, and a lack of domestic support.


http://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Assassination_of_Archduke_Franz_Ferdinand#Russian_military_attach.C3.A9.27s_office
	Serbian reservists being transported on tramp steamers on the Danube, apparently accidentally, crossed onto the Austro-Hungarian side of the river at Temes-Kubin and Austro-Hungarian soldiers fired into the air to warn them off. This incident was blown out of proportion and Austria-Hungary then declared war and mobilized its army on July 28, 1914. Under the Secret Treaty of 1892 Russia and France were obliged to mobilize their armies if any of the Triple Alliance mobilized. Soon all the Great Powers (except Italy) had chosen sides and gone to war.

	It could be argued that this assassination set in motion most of the major events of the twentieth century, with its reverberations lingering into the twenty-first. The Treaty of Versailles at the end of the First World War is generally linked to the rise of Adolf Hitler and World War II. It also led to the Russian Revolution, which helped lead to the Cold War. This, in turn, led to many of the major political developments of the twentieth century, such as the fall of the colonial empires and the rise of the United States and the Soviet Union to super-power status.


...


http://spartacus-educational.com/RUSokhrana.htm
	The Okhrana also recruited members of illegal organization. as paid informers. In 1912 over 26,000 people in Russia were receiving money from the Okhrana. The average informer received 100 rubles a month, a sum that was well above the average industrial wage at the time. Evno Azef, Okhrana's leading undercover agent, was paid over 2000 rubles a month.

	Some of the organizations that Okhrana were interested in were illegal and were based outside Russia. To deal with revolutionaries living in exile, Okhrana sections were also established in major European cities such as Paris and London.


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/books-and-monographs/okhrana-the-paris-operations-of-the-russian-imperial-police/5474-1.html
	The 1883 opening of a Paris office known as the Zagranichnaia okhranka or agentura was a sign of both success and failure on the part of the tsarist authorities. It reflected their success in having driven many revolutionaries, terrorists, and nationalists out of Russia; it also underscored their failure to stem an upsurge in Russian subversive activity based abroad. By the 1880s, the Russian emigre community in France had grown to some 5,000 people, most of them in the Paris area. The City of Light had become the hub for Russian revolutionary groups operating in much of Europe.

	...The Okhrana saw Paris as the most advantageous place to base its foreign operations. Russian police officials admired the French internal security service, the Sûreté Generale--generally regarded as among the best in the world--and sought access to its files through both official liaison and unofficial channels. The Okhrana even hired French, British, and other detectives to help run its operations. From Paris, moreover, the Okhrana could monitor its agenturas in Berlin and other European cities. Most of the key Russian revolutionaries in the French capital had contacts in other countries and cities. Consequently, penetrations of revolutionary groups in Paris often yielded leads to Russian dissident organizations and individuals outside France.

	The Okhrana's relations with the Sûreté were symbiotic. The Okhrana reduced the Sûreté 's workload and provided employment for retired French detectives. The French police did not see the Paris bureau as a threat to French national interests or to the Sûreté's organizational equities. On the eve of World War I the French security service declared: "It is impossible, on any objective assessment, to deny the usefulness of having a Russian police [force] operating in Paris, whether officially or not, whose presence is to keep under surveillance the activities of Russian revolutionaries." At the same time, socialist and radical deputies in the French Assembly, who were more sympathetic to the Russian revolutionaries than to the police, pressed the French and Russian Governments to shut down the Okhrana office. In 1913 the Russian regime formally complied by announcing the office's closure. But this was a subterfuge; the Russian police continued operating under the cover of the Agence Bint et Sambain, a private detective agency. One of the two proprietors, Henri Bint, was a former employee of both the Sûreté and the Okhrana.
	
	...Agent provocateur is a French term, but the Russians perfected the art. In fact, the primary purpose of the Foreign Bureau's provocations was to scare the French into taking action against Russian radicals and cooperating with the Okhrana. The most notorious provocation occurred in Paris in 1890, when Arkadiy Harting (a.k.a. Abraham Gekel'man or Landezen) organized a well-armed team of bombthrowers and then betrayed them to the Paris police. These heavily publicized arrests helped persuade the French public of the dangers posed by Russian revolutionaries in France. The episode also convinced officials in St. Petersburg that republican France could get tough on Russian radicals and make a good ally. To some extent, at least, this helped diminish mutual suspicions and created an atmosphere on both sides conducive to negotiation of the Franco-Russian alliance of 1891.

	...Harting may be the most interesting character in the essays (see the second reprinted article below, entitled "The Illustrious Career of Arkadiy Harting"). He rose from informer to master spy to spymaster, eventually becoming chief of the Paris office. As noted above, his top agent, Zhitomirsky, penetrated Lenin's inner circle during the Bolshevik party's underground days. Before he quit the espionage business in 1909 following his exposure by the French press as a Russian spy, Harting had served tsarist Russia, imperial Germany, and republican France, receiving decorations from all three.

	Harting's case officer was Pyotr Rachkovsky, probably the ablest head of the Okhrana's Foreign Bureau. Rachkovsky was a pioneer. He refined the art of what we today call active measures or perceptions management techniques. He paid subsidies to journalists willing to write articles favorable to Russian interests, and he purchased or subsidized such periodicals as Revue Russe and Le Courier Franco-Russe. During his tenure (1884-1902), journalists on the Okhrana payroll began planting articles in the French press that were favorable to Russian interests. Rachkovsky also created the Ligue pour le Salut de la Patrie Russe, which promoted positive views toward Russia among French citizens; this group was a forerunner of Soviet front organizations and "friendship societies."


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyotr_Rachkovsky
	Rachkovsky may have also played a role in amplifying the carnage of World War I: "Rachkovsky’s bosses in Russia and his hosts in Paris both feared the radicals, allowing the Russian agent to tighten the ties between the two nations. He succeeded so well that [historian Alex] Butterworth argues he was partly to blame for the Russo-French alliance that helped make World War I such a bloody mess."


https://books.google.com/books?id=8fxvCwAAQBAJ&pg=PT117&lpg=PT117&dq=Ferdinand+Foch+Russia
	For nearly three weeks there was no really serious alarm as to the general maintenance of peace. We have clear proof of the fact that in military circles in France the outlook was regarded as favourable for op. July 18th, we find Foch leaving Nancy for a fortnight's leave and a holiday at this home, the old manor-house of Trefeunteuniou in Brittany. His son remained with this regiment, but his two daughters and their children came to Brittany at the same time, with this sons-in-law, their husbands... Leave would certainly not have been asked for by the three officers, and above all by Foch, if there was any idea that war on the eastern frontier was close at hand.


https://books.google.com/books?id=lS_Gmi7DFFwC&q=Russia
	Foch soon grew impatient with the delay. He wanted to attack quickly both to assume the cherished offensive and because he believed that by attacking he could disrupt the timing of German operations. ...By mid-August, however, Foch, like most other French commanders, was still trying to discern German intentions. ...For its part, Russia mobilized faster than almost anyone, including Foch, believed possible.


https://www.quora.com/To-what-extent-was-Russia-more-responsible-for-the-outbreak-of-WW1
	However, whether you believe this July crisis was pre-planned, or it was a happy Fabrege Easter Egg that dropped into Sazanov’s lap, Russia acted quickly to start the war. Russia coordinated with its French allies in mid July, in a state visit by the perpetually belligerent President Poincarre, and significantly, without any official records being kept. Russia had already started mobilizing before Serbia had even been presented the July 23rd demarche, by Austria. It clearly wanted the war, that it instigated, at the very, least by encouraging Serbian intransigence to Austria’s demands, or, at the worst and most likely, by encouraging the Serbs to undertake Dimitrijevic’s assassination plan, in the first place.


http://www.history.com/topics/world-war-i/ferdinand-foch
	Foch next took charge of the French armies of the north; he now coordinated moves with the British and Belgian armies during the so-called “race to the sea.” If he did not succeed in going on the offensive, he did help check the German drive for the last true prizes of 1914, the Channel ports. Several times he was forced to brace up the nervous British commander, Sir John French, with what his biographer, B. H. Liddell Hart calls “an injection of Fochian serum.” But when the Germans ruptured the line at the Second Ypres in 1915, Foch’s insistence on counterattacks produced only unnecessary Allied losses. Death on an even larger scale was the most visible result of Foch’s Artois offensives in the spring and early fall of the year; casualties approached 150,000. After the Artois the eacutelan of the French common soldier, which he so prized, would never be the same.


http://www.newstatesman.com/culture/2014/12/offensive-excess-controversial-military-tactics-marshal-ferdinand-foch
	When war broke out in 1914 the Germans trumped moral superiority with firepower, and by the end of the month the French army had suffered over 210,000 casualties. On 23 August, the BEF was likewise mauled in its first encounter, at Mons. The British army did not recover fully from its early losses until the middle of 1918. Foch was only just able to pull off his gamble in the counterattack after the Marne, in part because the Germans overestimated the strength of the allies.
	
	...His celebrated On the Principles of War, published in 1903, spawned the doctrine of offensive à outrance – offensive to excess: the moral superiority of troops in attack would overcome all opposition. However, Foch himself, a fervent Catholic in an increasingly anti-clerical France, was not notably terrier-like; at least not until he had reached high rank.


https://books.google.com/books?id=lS_Gmi7DFFwC&pg=PT127&lpg=PT127&dq=Foch+versailles+treaty
	During the war, Foch had generally shunned reporters. His experience with the London Daily Mail in April 1919 had led to an unpleasant confrontation with Clemenceau during which he had agreed not to talk to the media. Once the signing of the Treaty of Versailles became inevitable, however, he again gave interviews in order to make sure that his voice, silenced throughout the first half of 1919, would be heard. Just weeks before the signing, he gave a prophetic interview in which he predicted the future of Europe: "And next time remember, the Germans will make no mistake. They will break through into northern France and will seize Channel ports as a base of operations against England... The Germans will have no arms for another attack you say? Ho ho! How do you know? By the time they had got them it would be too late."


https://books.google.com/books?id=lS_Gmi7DFFwC&q=Russia
	He began to speak publicly more often, deciding that "discipline is not servility." Foch firmly believed that any peace treaty that did not establish the Rhine River as Germany's western border was a betrayal to the men who had fallen in the war.

	...While little direct evidence links Foch to Rhenish independence schemes, his close professional and personal links to all three occupation generals makes it highly unlikely that he was blind to their activities. Clemenceau's representative in the Rhineland, Under Secretary of State for War Jules Jeanneney, believed that Foch was quite well informed of the Rhenish schemes and that both Fayolle and Mangin kept him regularly up-to-date. Evidence from Foch's personal notebooks indicate that as late as December 1919 he was aware of the activities of separatist movements in the Rhineland, Bavaria, and Hanover. Certainly, no evidence exists to suggest that Foch ever tried to dissuade his generals. Foch even moved his headquarters to the Rhenish city of Kreuznach, presumably to be closer to Fayolle, Mangin, and Gerard.
	...While Mangin continued to work with Dorten, Foch asked to be heard by the men deciding Europe's future. He demanded the right to speak both to the Council of Four and to the French Council of Ministers. On march 31, 1919, he was scheduled to address the Council of Four on the issue of communications with the German delegation at Spa. Instead, Foch dedicated his allotted time to a lengthy discussion of the future of the Rhineland. Foch warned the assembled politicians and diplomats that if the Allies agreed to a peace treaty that did not include a separate Rhineland, they would be committing suicide. He also spoke against the proposed military alliance as a feeble guarantee of future security:

		"There is no principle by which a victorious nation can be forced to restore the means of her own security to her enemy. After a free people has paid for her independence by more than a million and a half corpses and unparalleled devastation, no principle in the world can force her to live in perpetual fear of her neighbor, and to have alliances as her sole resource against disaster."

	Foch then asked for his speech to be translated, only to hear Clemenceau till him that a translation was not necessary as he believed that Lloyd George and Wilson (neither of whom was fluent in French) understood his main points. Enraged, Foch twice refused to leave the room when Clemenceau dismissed him. The prime minister, evidently embarrassed at his inability to control one of his generals, leant over to Woodrow Wilson and said, "I don't know what to do, he won't leave."

	...The incident produced a "mulish obstinacy" in Foch to press for the Rhineland issue and a desire by the Council of Four to keep Foch as far away from deliberations as possible. Clemenceau began to fear that Foch would use the Rhineland issue to force a coup d'etat. He flirted with the idea of replacing Foch with the much more pliable Petain. But Foch was too popular with the French people, and Rhineland independence had too much domestic support for Clemenceau to dismiss him.

	...Having thus failed with his demands before the Council of Four, Foch went one step further to outright insubordination. On April 6, Clemenceau asked him to deliver a telegram to the German delegation at Spa communicating to them the preliminary terms of the treaty. Foch refused on the grounds that he did not understand the language in the telegram. Clemenceau accused Foch of failing to obey orders and threatening to replace him with Petain.
	
	...Having been rebuffed twice by the politicians, Foch turned to the media. ... The former article directly quoted Foch as prophetically stating:

		"Having reached the Rhine, we must stay there. Impress that upon your fellow countrymen... We must have a barrier... Remember, that these seventy millions of Germans will always be a menace to us... They are a people both envious and warlike... What was it that saved the Allies at the beginning of the war? Russia. Well, on whose side will Russia be in the future? ...And next time, remember, the Germans will make no mistake. They will break through into Northern France and will seize the Channel ports as a base of operations against England."


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ferdinand_Foch
	On 11 November 1918 Foch accepted the German request for an armistice. Foch advocated peace terms that would make Germany unable to pose a threat to France ever again. Foch considered the Treaty of Versailles too lenient on Germany and as the Treaty was being signed on 28 June 1919, he declared: "This is not a peace. It is an armistice for twenty years". His words proved prophetic: the Second World War started twenty years and 64 days later.

	...After the reading of the pre-amble of the November 1918 armistice, Foch left the carriage, in a move that was perceived as humiliating by the defeated Germans. In 1940, after the defeat of France by Germany early in World War II, when France surrendered to Germany, Adolf Hitler, in a calculated gesture of disdain to the French delegates – left the carriage, as Foch had done in 1918.

	...Foch made a 3000-mile circuit through the U.S. Mid West and industrial cities such as Pittsburgh PA, then on to Washington, D.C., which included Ceremonies at Arlington National Cemetery for what was then called Armistice Day. During the tour he received numerous honorary degrees from American Universities.

	Foch died on 20 March 1929, and was interred in Les Invalides, next to Napoleon and other famous French soldiers and officers.

	A statue of Foch was set up at the Compiègne Armistice site when the area was converted into a national memorial. This statue was the one item left undisturbed by the Germans following their defeat of France in June 1940. Following the signing of France's surrender on 21 June, the Germans ravaged the area surrounding the railway car in which both the 1918 and 1940 surrenders had taken place. The statue was left standing, to view nothing but a wasteland.


https://www.widoobiz.com/entrepreneurs-lifestyle/marechal-foch-toujours-ete-entrepreneur-offensif/51471
https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=fr&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.widoobiz.com%2Fentrepreneurs-lifestyle%2Fmarechal-foch-toujours-ete-entrepreneur-offensif%2F51471
	By Tancrède Blondé

	It is impossible on this eve of an armistice not to evoke the life and work of Marshal Foch, which enabled France to win the First World War.


https://www.widoobiz.com/a-la-une/le-management-selon-kim-jong-un/58432
https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=fr&u=https://www.widoobiz.com/a-la-une/le-management-selon-kim-jong-un/58432&prev=search
	By Tancrède Blondé

	It is true that he is capable of executing one of his ministers with air cannon, but, as Sophocles said, "the bad example is contagious." And that, Kim Jung One can not accept it. Back on a method of management that has proved its worth in Germany and Russia in the 1930s.


https://www.gwern.net/docs/terrorism/1989-andrew.pdf
	Like much else in the study of contemporary intelligence, KGB and GRU foreign operations are commonly interpreted with almost total disregard for historical perspective. "Active measures" are widely believed to be an invention of Soviet intelligence. In reality, though the KGB has been responsible for an enormous expansion in the use made of them, their effectiveness was at least as great in tsarist times. There is no convincing evidence that any KGB-inspired press campaign in the West as been as effective as the tsarist attempting to persuade Western investors, all of whom later lost their money, to ignore the risks of investing in Russia. Before World War I, every Paris newspaper of note save for the socialist L'Humanite was successfully bribed to support tsarist government loans. By 1914, 25 percent of France's foreign investment was in Russia


https://www.widoobiz.com/j-entreprends-comme-je-suis/widooworld/entreprendre-en-moldavie-une-opportunite-de-developpement-grandissante/8547
https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=fr&u=https://www.widoobiz.com/j-entreprends-comme-je-suis/widooworld/entreprendre-en-moldavie-une-opportunite-de-developpement-grandissante/8547
	Moldova: A Growing Development Opportunity

	By Tancrède Blondé

	Societe Generale understood this well, and it is under its subsidiary Mobiasbianca that it intervenes in Moldova. After a few years in Russia in the banking sector, Jean-François Myard was awarded the management of the Moldovan sector. What are the advantages of Moldova for a banking platform?


http://iranecoinfoblog.blogspot.com/2017/01/iran-nous-sommes-dans-une-phase-de.html
https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=fr&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=http%3A%2F%2Firanecoinfoblog.blogspot.com%2F2017%2F01%2Firan-nous-sommes-dans-une-phase-de.html
	Iran: "We are in a phase of rediscovery of the market"

	In this new issue of Entrepreneurs du Monde, Tancrède Blondé sets out to discover Iran thanks to the French entrepreneurs who have gone to the site.

	A country that deserves to be known. Despite its somewhat dated sulphurous reputation, Iran has very interesting resources for entrepreneurs who are sick of new markets. Again we must be patient. Before you can talk business, the leader will have to meet a lot of people. "They are very attentive to the personal relationship that you can develop," says Vivaction CEO Richard Marry. 


http://www.bbc.com/news/business-29699733
	Christophe de Margerie, the chief executive of French oil company Total, has died in an air crash in Moscow.

	His corporate jet collided with a snow plough and was then engulfed in flames. All four people on board were killed.


https://www.ft.com/content/3ef55d72-58bd-11e4-942f-00144feab7de
	The tragedy follows a period of heightened tensions between Russia and the west over Ukraine, with Total’s joint venture with Russia’s Lukoil to explore shale oil in Siberia scuppered by western sanctions.

	De Margerie has been sympathetic to Russia and a defender of Total’s interests in the region. In a recent interview with the Financial Times he struck an upbeat note, saying that “it was not the first time there was a crisis between Europe and Russia”.

	There was confusion about the condition of the driver of the snow-clearing vehicle amid conflicting claims by Russian authorities that he had escaped unhurt after earlier reports said he was seriously injured.

	“It has now been established that the driver of the snowplough was in a state of alcoholic intoxication,” said Vladimir Markin, spokesman for Russia’s investigative committee. He added that the driver had been detained.


https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-04-29/unmasking-the-men-behind-zero-hedge-wall-street-s-renegade-blog


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2014-10-20/anti-petrodollar-ceo-french-energy-giant-total-dies-freak-plane-crash-moscow


http://www.egaliteetreconciliation.fr/Mort-de-Christophe-de-Margerie-le-mystere-reste-entier-40451.html
https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=fr&u=http://www.egaliteetreconciliation.fr/Mort-de-Christophe-de-Margerie-le-mystere-reste-entier-40451.html


https://www.widoobiz.com/actu-business/les-trois-phrases-resument-christophe-margerie/51128
https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=fr&u=http://www.widoobiz.com/actu-business/les-trois-phrases-resument-christophe-margerie/51128
	The three sentences that summarize Christophe de Margerie

	By Tancrède Blondé

	Death to 63 years in a plane crash in Moscow, Total's CEO was known not to have his tongue in his pocket.

	Tragic. Because of a drunken driver of snowplows in Moscow, France loses one of its greatest bosses.

	...Capable of staying for hours in an anti-chamber of an officer or of exchanging with him until the end of the night, Christophe de Margerie remains a background rider of the commercial negotiation. So much so that he had kept good contacts with Vladimir Putin. Until the day he meets the snowplow. Tragic, you are told.


https://www.cielfm.be/les-francais-ont-honore-la-memoire-du-corps-expeditionnaire-russe-une-minute-de-silence/
https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=fr&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cielfm.be%2Fles-francais-ont-honore-la-memoire-du-corps-expeditionnaire-russe-une-minute-de-silence%2F


http://archive.government.ru/eng/docs/15656/
	Vladimir Putin's address:

	Mr Prime Minister, French friends, compatriots,

	Today, we dedicate this monument to the Russian Expeditionary Force and pay tribute to the memory of our men and officers who fought far from their homeland – both for Russia and for France – performing their duty with courage and honour during WWI.

	French Marshal Ferdinand Foch, a hero and a legendary military leader of that war, often referred to as the Great War, wrote: "If France wasn't wiped off the map of Europe, we owe it first to the courage and staunchness of Russian soldiers." These sincere words are testimony to his deep respect for Russia, the Russian Army, and the Russian people.


https://books.google.com/books?id=FNemAgAAQBAJ&pg=PA10
	By Michael Jabara Carley 

	"The Bolshevik as Foe"

	In Paris, too, cooporation with the Bolsheviks was mooted. Even the soon-to-be-Allied generalissimo Ferdinand Foch seemed disposed to listen. It made sense because the anti-Bolshevik factions were weak and pro-German. The "better" Russians hoped that the Germans would put down the revolution. On the other hand, In February and March 1918 the Bolsheviks were preparing to fight the Germans. Foch and Lloyd George were among the first "realists" or pragmatists, ready to overlook Boslhevik revolutionary ideas in order to ally with them against the greater German danger.

	Would pragmatism prevail?


...


https://www.ushmm.org/wlc/en/article.php?ModuleId=10005425
	World War I was one of the most destructive wars in modern history. Nearly ten million soldiers died as a result of hostilities. The enormous losses on all sides of the conflict resulted in part from the introduction of new weapons, like the machine gun and gas warfare, as well as the failure of military leaders to adjust their tactics to the increasingly mechanized nature of warfare. A policy of attrition, particularly on the Western Front, cost the lives of hundreds of thousands of soldiers.

	No official agencies kept careful accounting of civilian losses during the war years, but scholars suggest that as many as thirteen million non-combatants died as a direct or indirect result of the war. The conflict uprooted or displaced millions of persons from their homes in Europe and Asia Minor. Property and industry losses were catastrophic, especially in France, Belgium, Poland, and Serbia, where fighting had been heaviest. 

	The "Fourteen Points"

	In January 1918, some ten months before the end of World War I, US President Woodrow Wilson had written a list of proposed war aims which he called the “Fourteen Points.” Eight of these points dealt specifically with territorial and political settlements associated with the victory of the Entente Powers, including the idea of national self-determination for ethnic populations in Europe. The remainder of the principles focused on preventing war in the future, the last proposing a League of Nations to arbitrate international disputes. Wilson hoped his proposal would bring about a just and lasting peace: a “peace without victory.”

	When German leaders signed the armistice in the Compiègne Forest on 11 November 1918, many of them believed that the Fourteen Points would form the basis of the future peace treaty, but when the heads of the governments of the United States, Great Britain, France, and Italy met in Paris to discuss treaty terms, the European contingent of the “Big Four” rejected this approach.

	Treaty of Versailles

	Viewing Germany as the chief instigator of the conflict, the European Allied Powers decided to impose particularly stringent treaty obligations upon the defeated Germany. The Treaty of Versailles, presented for German leaders to sign on May 7, 1919, forced Germany to concede territories to Belgium (Eupen-Malmédy), Czechoslovakia (the Hultschin district), and Poland (Poznan [German: Posen], West Prussia and Upper Silesia). The Germans returned Alsace and Lorraine, annexed in 1871 after the Franco-Prussian War, to France. All German overseas colonies became League of Nation Mandates, and the city of Danzig (today: Gdansk), with its large ethnically German population, became a Free City. The treaty demanded demilitarization and occupation of the Rhineland, and special status for the Saarland under French control. Plebiscites were to determine the future of areas in northern Schleswig on the Danish-German frontier and parts of Upper Silesia on the border with Poland.

	Perhaps the most humiliating portion of the treaty for defeated Germany was Article 231, commonly known as the "War Guilt Clause," which forced the German nation to accept complete responsibility for initiating World War I. As such Germany was liable for all material damages, and France's premier Georges Clemenceau particularly insisted on imposing enormous reparation payments. Aware that Germany would probably not be able to pay such a towering debt, Clemenceau and the French nevertheless greatly feared rapid German recovery and the initiation of a new war against France. Hence, the French sought in the postwar treaty to limit Germany's potential to regain its economic superiority and to rearm. The German army was to be limited to 100,000 men, and conscription proscribed; the treaty restricted the Navy to vessels under 10,000 tons, with a ban on the acquisition or maintenance of a submarine fleet.

	...The newly formed German democratic government saw the Versailles Treaty as a “dictated peace” (Diktat). Although France, which had suffered more materially than the other parties in the “Big Four,” had insisted upon harsh terms, the peace treaty did not ultimately help to settle the international disputes which had initiated World War I. On the contrary, it tended to hinder inter-European cooperation and make more fractious the underlying issues which had caused the war in the first place. The dreadful sacrifices of war and tremendous loss of life, suffered on all sides, weighed heavily not only upon the losers of the conflict, but also upon those combatants on the winning side, like Italy, whose postwar spoils seemed incommensurate with the terrible price each nation had paid in blood and material goods.

	For the populations of the defeated powers—Germany, Austria, Hungary, and Bulgaria—the respective peace treaties appeared an unfair punishment, and their governments, whether democratic as in Germany or Austria, or authoritarian, in the case of Hungary and Bulgaria, quickly resorted to violating the military and financial terms of the accords. Efforts to revise and defy the more burdensome provisions of the peace became a key element in their respective foreign policies and proved a destabilizing factor in international politics.

	The war guilt clause, its incumbent reparation payments, and the limitations on the German military were particularly onerous in the minds of most Germans, and revision of the Versailles Treaty represented one of the platforms that gave radical right wing parties in Germany, including Hitler's Nazi Party, such credibility to mainstream voters in the 1920s and early 1930s. Promises to rearm, to reclaim German territory, particularly in the East, to remilitarize the Rhineland, and to regain prominence again among the European and world powers after such a humiliating defeat and peace, stoked ultranationalist sentiment and helped average voters to overlook the more radical tenets of Nazi ideology.

	The burdensome reparations, coupled with a general inflationary period in Europe in the 1920s, caused spiraling hyperinflation of the German Reichsmark by 1923. This hyperinflationary period combined with the effects of the Great Depression (beginning in 1929) to undermine the stability of the German economy, wiping out the personal savings of the middle class and spurring massive unemployment. Such economic chaos did much to increase social unrest, destabilizing the fragile Weimar Republic.

	Finally, the efforts of the Western European powers to marginalize Germany through the Versailles Treaty undermined and isolated German democratic leaders. Particularly deleterious in connection with the harsh provisions of Versailles was the rampant conviction among many in the general population that Germany had been “stabbed in the back” by the “November criminals”—those who had helped to form the new Weimar government and broker the peace which Germans had so desperately wanted, but which ended so disastrously in Versailles. Many Germans forgot that they had applauded the fall of the Kaiser, had initially welcomed parliamentary democratic reform, and had rejoiced at the armistice. They recalled only that the German Left—Socialists, Communists and Jews, in common imagination—had surrendered German honor to an ignominious peace when no foreign armies had even set foot on German soil. 

	This Dolchstosslegende (stab-in-the-back legend) helped further to discredit German socialist and liberal circles who felt most committed to maintain Germany's fragile democratic experiment. The difficulties imposed by social and economic unrest in the wake of World War I and its onerous peace terms worked in tandem to undermine pluralistic democratic solutions in Weimar Germany and to increase public longing for more authoritarian direction, a kind of leadership which German voters ultimately and unfortunately found in Adolf Hitler and his National Socialist Party.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treaty_of_Versailles#Treaty
	In June 1919, the Allies declared that war would resume if the German government did not sign the treaty they had agreed to among themselves. The government headed by Philipp Scheidemann was unable to agree on a common position, and Scheidemann himself resigned rather than agree to sign the treaty. Gustav Bauer, the head of the new government, sent a telegram stating his intention to sign the treaty if certain articles were withdrawn, including Articles 227, 230 and 231. In response, the Allies issued an ultimatum stating that Germany would have to accept the treaty or face an invasion of Allied forces across the Rhine within 24 hours. On 23 June, Bauer capitulated and sent a second telegram with a confirmation that a German delegation would arrive shortly to sign the treaty. On 28 June 1919, the fifth anniversary of the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand (the immediate impetus for the war), the peace treaty was signed.


http://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/keynes-predicts-economic-chaos
	At the Palace of Versailles outside Paris, Germany signs the Treaty of Versailles with the Allies, officially ending World War I. The English economist John Maynard Keynes, who had attended the peace conference but then left in protest of the treaty, was one of the most outspoken critics of the punitive agreement. In his The Economic Consequences of the Peace, published in December 1919, Keynes predicted that the stiff war reparations and other harsh terms imposed on Germany by the treaty would lead to the financial collapse of the country, which in turn would have serious economic and political repercussions on Europe and the world.

	By the fall of 1918, it was apparent to the leaders of Germany that defeat was inevitable in World War I. After four years of terrible attrition, Germany no longer had the men or resources to resist the Allies, who had been given a tremendous boost by the infusion of American manpower and supplies. In order to avert an Allied invasion of Germany, the German government contacted U.S. President Woodrow Wilson in October 1918 and asked him to arrange a general armistice. Earlier that year, Wilson had proclaimed his “Fourteen Points,” which proposed terms for a “just and stable peace” between Germany and its enemies. The Germans asked that the armistice be established along these terms, and the Allies more or less complied, assuring Germany of a fair and unselfish final peace treaty. On November 11, 1918, the armistice was signed and went into effect, and fighting in World War I came to an end.

	In January 1919, John Maynard Keynes traveled to the Paris Peace Conference as the chief representative of the British Treasury. The brilliant 35-year-old economist had previously won acclaim for his work with the Indian currency and his management of British finances during the war. In Paris, he sat on an economic council and advised British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, but the important peacemaking decisions were out of his hands, and President Wilson, Prime Minister Lloyd George, and French Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau wielded the real authority. Germany had no role in the negotiations deciding its fate, and lesser Allied powers had little responsibility in the drafting of the final treaty.

	It soon became apparent that the treaty would bear only a faint resemblance to the Fourteen Points that had been proposed by Wilson and embraced by the Germans. Wilson, a great idealist, had few negotiating skills, and he soon buckled under the pressure of Clemenceau, who hoped to punish Germany as severely as it had punished France in the Treaty of Frankfurt that ended the Franco-Prussian War in 1871. Lloyd George took the middle ground between the two men, but he backed the French plan to force Germany to pay reparations for damages inflicted on Allied civilians and their property. Since the treaty officially held Germany responsible for the outbreak of World War I (in reality it was only partially responsible), the Allies would not have to pay reparations for damages they inflicted on German civilians.

	The treaty that began to emerge was a thinly veiled Carthaginian Peace, an agreement that accomplished Clemenceau’s hope to crush France’s old rival. According to its terms, Germany was to relinquish 10 percent of its territory. It was to be disarmed, and its overseas empire taken over by the Allies. Most detrimental to Germany’s immediate future, however, was the confiscation of its foreign financial holdings and its merchant carrier fleet. The German economy, already devastated by the war, was thus further crippled, and the stiff war reparations demanded ensured that it would not soon return to its feet. A final reparations figure was not agreed upon in the treaty, but estimates placed the amount in excess of $30 billion, far beyond Germany’s capacity to pay. Germany would be subject to invasion if it fell behind on payments.

	Keynes, horrified by the terms of the emerging treaty, presented a plan to the Allied leaders in which the German government be given a substantial loan, thus allowing it to buy food and materials while beginning reparations payments immediately. Lloyd George approved the “Keynes Plan,” but President Wilson turned it down because he feared it would not receive congressional approval. In a private letter to a friend, Keynes called the idealistic American president “the greatest fraud on earth.” On June 5, 1919, Keynes wrote a note to Lloyd George informing the prime minister that he was resigning his post in protest of the impending “devastation of Europe.”


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%89tienne_Mantoux
	Étienne Mantoux (5 February 1913 – 29 April 1945) was a French economist, born in Paris. He was the son of Paul Mantoux. He is probably best known for his book The Carthaginian Peace, or the Economic Consequences of Mr. Keynes published two years after it was completed and one year after his death. In it, he sought to demonstrate that much of John Maynard Keynes' beliefs about the consequences of the Treaty of Versailles for Germany as expressed in The Economic Consequences of the Peace were wrong.

	In opposition to Keynes he held that justice demanded that Germany should have paid for the whole damage caused by World War I, and he set out to prove that many of Keynes' forecasts were not verified by subsequent events.


http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/670825
	Mistakes and Myths: The Allies, Germany, and the Versailles Treaty, 1918–1921
	Sally Marks 

	For nearly forty years, historians of twentieth-century diplomacy have argued that the Versailles treat was more reasonable that is reputation suggests and that it did not of itself cause the Depression, the rise of Hitler, or World War II.


https://issforum.org/reviews/PDF/AR429.pdf
	Sally Marks.  “Mistakes and Myths: The Allies, Germany, and the Versailles Treaty, 1918–1921.”

	Reviewed by William R. Keylor, Boston University

	The Demonization of Versailles 

	Sally Marks has devoted a significant portion of her scholarly career to probing the complex details related to the peace settlement of 1919 in Europe. Her path-breaking studies of the reparation sections of the Treaty of Versailles, in particular, have shed light on an excruciatingly complex topic that had long suffered from gross misrepresentation, exaggeration, and outright falsification.


http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/670825
	Mistakes and Myths: The Allies, Germany, and the Versailles Treaty, 1918–1921
	Sally Marks

	...The distorted view of The Economic Consequences of the Peace and J. M. Keyne's other works still dominates both the Anglo-American historical profession and the English-speaking educated public

	...As Steiner observed, the German view of the treaty has prevailed, especially among nonexperts in the English-speaking world, thanks to prolonged, intense Anglo-German propaganda, including Keyne's brilliant but warped polemic. Among other things, World War I ushered in the age of propaganda, owing to the popular interest in the war and the postwar, and the views of the treaty have been heavily propaganda-driven.

	...Thanks to one of the world's most successful and longest-lasting propaganda efforts, the answer was simply that the treaty was unfair.

	...But this time the defeated power was not humiliated; instead, it was able to delude itself about the war's outcome.

	[pg 25]

	Keynes was an added factor, intensifying British revisionism and hostility to treaty enforcement. The Economic Consequences of Peace, published in December 1919, was one of history's most brilliant and influential polemics, partly because few educated people then knew economics and, aware of their ignorance, accepted Keynes's distortions and omissions. While Keynes, who rarely admitted error, came to regret his book, long discredited by scholars, it lives on in new editions, academic analyses, and assumptions of less profound literature, a propaganda triumph second only to the Anglo-Germain campaign against the treaty.

	...On his relationship with Carl Melchior, see Keynes, Two Memoirs


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2013-05-04/niall-ferguson-%E2%80%93-great-degeneration?page=2
	Keynes was a homosexual and had no intention of having children. We are NOT dead in the long run…our children are our progeny.   It is the economic ideals of Keynes that have gotten us into the problems of today.


http://www.thecrimson.com/article/2013/5/7/Ferguson-Apology-Keynes/
	An Open Letter to the Harvard Community

	By Niall Ferguson

	Not for one moment did I mean to suggest that Keynesian economics as a body of thought was simply a function of Keynes’ sexuality. But...  Keynes’ sexual orientation did have historical significance. The strong attraction he felt for the German banker Carl Melchior undoubtedly played a part in shaping Keynes’ views on the Treaty of Versailles and its aftermath.	


http://www.newsweek.com/decline-putins-russia-its-way-global-irrelevance-65847
	In Decline, Putin's Russia Is On Its Way to Global Irrelevance

	By Niall Ferguson 


https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-01-21/trump-fear-stalks-davos-as-elite-pray-for-spring-reality-check
	“If you bother to read some of the serious analysis of Trump’s support, you realize that it’s a very fragile thing and highly unlikely to deliver what he needs in the crucial first phase of the primaries,” said Niall Ferguson, Laurence A. Tisch professor of history at Harvard University. “By the time we get to March-April, it’s all over. I think there’s going to be a wonderful catharsis, I’m really looking forward to it: Trump’s humiliation. Bring it on.”


https://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/2016/05/08/keep-calm-constitution-will-constrain-trump/vb06y2Q2O5khvkZKdHl7pI/story.html
	Keep calm — the Constitution will constrain Trump

	By Niall Ferguson


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niall_Ferguson


http://thepenguinpress.com/book/kissinger-volume-i-the-idealist-1923-1968/


http://www.newcriterion.com/articles.cfm/Guilt-trip--Versailles--avant-garde---kitsch-7942
	Guilt trip: Versailles, avant-garde & kitsch

	by Roger Kimball

	John Maynard Keynes’s revisionist history of World War I has had enduring—and harmful—consequences.

	Think about it. The one thing that everyone knows about the Treaty of Versailles is that, because of the overly harsh terms the Allies imposed upon Germany, it led directly to Hitler and World War II. An article in The Economist in 1999 epitomized this bit of folklore: The “final crime” of the Great War, the article proclaimed, was the Treaty of Versailles, which “would ensure a second world war.”

	As usual, Mark Twain came closer to the truth. It’s not so much the things you don’t know that get you into trouble, Twain wrote, as the things you do know that ain’t so.

	In fact, as the historian Andrew Roberts argues in his History of the English-Speaking Peoples Since 1900, there are good reasons for believing that the Treaty of Versailles ought to have been a good deal harsher than it was.

	...In another work, Keynes famously wrote that “Practical men, who believe themselves to be quite exempt from any intellectual influence, are usually the slaves of some defunct economist.” Pondering what he wrote about the Treaty of Versailles, I believe I begin to understand what Baron Keynes meant. Perhaps this is the place to note how close Keynes was to the German parties of the Treaty. As Niall Ferguson points out in The Pity of War, Keynes was deeply attached to Carl Melchior, Max Warburg’s right-hand man at the Hamburg Bank of M. M. Warburg & Co. He read parts of a draft of Economic Consequences to Melchior and Warburg, and apparently profited from their response. “Thanks to Dr. Melchior’s clear explanation,” the German Foreign Office official Kurt von Lersner recalled, “Herr Keynes . . . is trying to find common ground with us.” How nice. Posterity has not, Ferguson notes, appreciated “the extent to which Keynes was manipulated by his German friends” or “the extent to which he erred in his analysis of the consequences of the peace.”


https://pjmedia.com/columnist/roger-kimball/


https://pjmedia.com/rogerkimball/2014/03/21/putin-speaks/
	Putin speaks!

	By Roger Kimball

	Not everyone has seen Valdimir's Putin's latest Op-Ed. It think it's important, and wanted to share it with readers now.


https://pjmedia.com/rogerkimball/2013/9/14/putins-horrifying-mirror/
	Putin's Horrifying Mirror

	By Roger Kimball

	What was it about Vladimir Putin’s extraordinary op-ed in The New York Times last week that so infuriated the Washington establishment? Oh, how they hated it!  ...And the great Nowhere Man, Col. Gaddafi’s good buddy, the Madcap Maverick himself, John McCain said that the op-ed was “an insult to the intelligence of every American.”


https://pjmedia.com/rogerkimball/2017/03/08/when-wiretaps-dont-matter/
	The Democrats' 'Red Scare' Narrative Is Over

	By Roger Kimball


https://pjmedia.com/rogerkimball/2017/01/19/is-the-left-a-threat/
	Is the War Against Trump a Sideshow, or a Menace?

	By Roger Kimball


https://twitter.com/rogerkimball/status/850690363497033728
	Roger Kimball

	How’s that “Trump is the puppet of Putin” narrative faring?


https://networks.h-net.org/node/28443/reviews/30113/marks-carley-1939-alliance-never-was-and-coming-world-war-ii
	Marks on Carley, '1939: The Alliance That Never Was and the Coming of World War II'
	Author: Michael Jabara Carley
	Reviewer: Sally Marks

	The Russian alliance contributed both to keeping a comparatively weakening France in the ranks of the great powers before 1914 and to French survival in the first years of the Great War. Afterwards a shattered France needed the Russian tie more than ever, but ideological factors rendered that politically impossible whereas the eastern alliances with smaller states proved an unsatisfactory substitute, potentially more liabilities than assets. Thus the Nazi challenge impelled Paris to a new Russian pact in 1935, but mutual distrust rendered it still-born. France's reluctant ally, Britain, had even more strained relations with the Soviet Union. Hostility to a historic rival was both traditional and recent, broken only by a decade of detente from 1907 to 1917; ideology and incidents aggravated the interwar relationship. In his study of the 1939 negotiations among these three powers, Michael Carley asks whether Britain and France really sought to put aside existing distrust and achieve alliance with the Soviet Union against the greatest danger, Nazi Germany.

	...Carley is on firmer ground when he demonstrates, as he does conclusively, the acute Anglo-French distrust of Soviet Russia.

	Carley also stresses that Russian distrust of Britain and France was both acute and justified, though reinforced by historic enmity to Britain and chronic suspicion of capitalist motives. One must ask, however, whether western distrust of the Soviet Union was equally justified and examine the underlying motives of Russian policy insofar as one can.

	...it is clear, as Carley says, that Russia aimed to delay war as long as possible.

	...Carley is right that the events he describes were part of the early Cold War, and his approach is a refreshing antidote to Cold War rhetoric assuming that all double-dealing lay on one side. A thorough exposition of the Russian viewpoint is immensely valuable, and Carley has made a major contribution to our understanding of Litvinov's thinking. Providing the contents of so many Soviet documents to those who do not read Russian is an important service to Clio's practitioners, for it offers a wealth of valuable and revealing detail. Undoubtedly this book will figure prominently in future debates about the origins of World War II.


https://networks.h-net.org/node/28443/reviews/30113/marks-carley-1939-alliance-never-was-and-coming-world-war-ii
	Carley displays fairly consistent sympathy for the Russian diplomatic point of view, though he never condones Stalinist brutality, shows much enthusiasm for Molotov, or fully excuses Russian policy. When there is a clash of evidence, he tends to accept the Russian version.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-10-10/why-do-they-hate-us-so-one-western-scholars-reply-worried-russian-student?page=2
	Submitted by Michael Jabara Carley via Strategic-Culture.org,

	I gave a lecture in Moscow during the spring about western-Soviet relations over the last century. With the partial exception of World War II, it is a narrative of unrelenting hostility. After I had finished, a student asked, «why do they hate us so?» The answer is not complicated. You cannot cross «da man» in the United States, that is, the powerful, wealthy US «deep state», which sets the rules for everyone else and enforces its worldwide hegemony against disobedient states and leaders.


http://www.strategic-culture.org/news/2016/11/15/can-trump-drain-the-swamp.html
	Can Trump ‘Drain the Swamp’?

	Michael Jabara Carley

 	«happy white liberals» who also support US world domination and aggression. Why shucks, backing fascists in the Ukraine and jihadists in Syria is as American as apple pie.

	In the New World Order (NWO) of neoliberalism and bipartisan US hegemonism, it is the 1%, which governs in the United States. 


http://www.strategic-culture.org/news/2017/01/09/syria-and-united-states-we-now-know.html
	Syria and the United States: We Now Know

	Michael Jabara Carley

	Somehow, it has not sunk into the general consciousness of US public opinion that the Obama administration has supported or is supporting directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, the forces of Al Qaeda and the Islamic State in Syria (ISIL, ISIS or Daesh) in order to overthrow the government of President Bashar al Assad in Damascus. This should not be surprising because most Americans do not believe that the US government could be on the wrong side of any conflict. The Mainstream Media (MSM), both print and broadcast, serve as purveyors of this general idea. Call it «fake news» or propaganda, it works well on US public opinion.


http://www.strategic-culture.org/news/2017/04/12/will-big-lies-about-syria-chemical-weapons-spark-new-us-war.html
	Will ‘Big Lies’ About Syria’s Chemical Weapons Spark a New US War?

	Michael Jabara Carley

	The only entities using chemical weapons, sometimes as false flag operations, were and are the foreign backed Jihadist mercenaries operating in Syria.

	Nevertheless, Jihadist use of chemical weapons has been largely ignored, or the responsibility for using them, in an Orwellian turnabout, has been foisted upon the Syrian government in Damascus. The issue keeps coming up, and is used by the United States and its European and regional vassals as an implicit threat or means of pressure against the Damascus government. In fact, according to Seymour Hersh, the muckraking American journalist, the US State Department and the CIA facilitated, or were complicit in the shipping of chemical weapons from Libya to Syria through Turkey for the use of their Salafist allies.


http://www.strategic-culture.org/news/2016/12/11/fake-news-who-really-making-war-truth.html
	‘Fake News’: Who is Really Making the War on Truth?

	Michael Jabara Carley

	The other day David Ignatius, a columnist at the Washington Post, declared sententiously that «truth is losing». He meant of course «the truth» according to the US government. Ignatius recently interviewed Richard Stengel, a State Department official responsible for «public diplomacy», someone who had previously worked for Time magazine, a stellar source of «truth» and the «American way». Things are getting tough, Stengel said. We’ve entered «a ‘post-truth’ world, where the facts are sometimes overwhelmed by propaganda from Russia and the Islamic State». You can see right away where this conversation is headed. And how outrageous to compare Russia and the IS, when the original purveyors of Salafi-Jihadism are located in Washington, DC.


http://www.strategic-culture.org/news/2017/03/16/will-chrystya-freeland-finally-ruin-canadian-russian-relations.html
	Will Chrystia Freeland Finally Ruin Canadian-Russian Relations?

	Michael Jabara Carley

	On 10 January 2017 Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau fired his minister of external affairs, Stéphane Dion, and replaced him with Chrystia Freeland, who was then minister of international trade. This cabinet shuffle might not have gotten much public notice except that Dion is a distinguished parliamentarian, former leader of the party and leader of the opposition, and a former key minister in the Liberal government of Jean Chrétien. Freeland, on the other hand, is a well-known Ukrainian ultra-nationalist and self-declared Russophobe and hater of Russian President Vladimir Putin.


https://networks.h-net.org/node/28443/discussions/52368/h-diplo-roundtable-silent-conflict-hidden-history-early-soviet
	Michael Jabara Carley.  Silent Conflict.  A Hidden History of Early Soviet-Western Relations
	
	Introduction by William Keylor, Boston University

	Last summer, as President Vladimir Putin annexed the Crimea (with its Russian-speaking majority) and began to apply pressure on Ukraine (with its Russian-speaking minority), I was completing my reading of Michael Carley’s book Silent Conflict in preparation for the H-Diplo roundtable on his book that I was asked to introduce. Foreign affairs specialists in the West have debated the true motivations of the current Russian strongman for undertaking this daring set of foreign policies. Is he a pragmatic realist defending his country’s vital national interests against a U.S.-backed European Union intent on luring Ukraine into the West’s orbit at Russia’s expense with the siren song of market capitalism and political democracy?  Or is he a Russophile ideologue driven by a messianic belief in the mission of expanding his country’s borders as far westward as possible?


https://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/dotmil/2012/06/18/putin-turns-to-gunboat-diplomacy-in-syria
	Russian President Vladimir Putin is increasingly worried about the fall of Assad, Russia's longtime and last remaining ally in the Middle East, experts say.

	But would Putin actually order whatever number of troops are aboard the assault ships to engage in fighting against rebel forces?

	"This is just a signal in the form of old-style gunboat diplomacy," says Boston University international relations professor William Keylor. "This is just muscle flexing."

	"This is two ships. It's not an aircraft carrier strike group," says Keylor. "That kind of large deployment would be cause for alarm."


http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/middle-east/syria-war-aleppo-latest-putin-assad-launch-new-military-campaign-a7420431.html
	Russia deploys new aircraft carrier as new Syria offensive begins


https://networks.h-net.org/node/28443/discussions/52368/h-diplo-roundtable-silent-conflict-hidden-history-early-soviet
	Michael Jabara Carley.  Silent Conflict.  A Hidden History of Early Soviet-Western Relations
	
	Introduction by William Keylor, Boston University

	Carley now returns to the 1920s to apply his revisionist perspective to the period before there was a Hitler to deal with. The topic of Soviet foreign policy in the 1920s has received much less scholarly attention than has the 1930s and the post-World War II period. Carley has done the profession a great service by his dogged search for archives in the unwelcoming labyrinth of the unpublished Soviet records.


https://books.google.com/books?id=l5XddxYfdl4C&pg=PA256
	1939: The Alliance That Never Was and the Coming of World War II

	By Micheal Jabara Carley

	The British Conservative government hoped to avoid war, not so much by deterrence as by appeasement. Of course, appeasement did not have, by certain British lights anyway, the craven, negative connotations we now associate with the world; it meant a reasonable effort to meet Adolf Hitler's "legitimate" grievances for revision of the Versailles treaty which had settled the First World War.


https://he.palgrave.com/page/detail/the-illusion-of-peace-sally-marks/?sf1=barcode&st1=9780333985892
	Sally Marks provides a compelling analysis of European diplomacy between the First World War and Hitler's advent... In this new edition Marks also argues that the Allied failure to bring defeat home to the German people in 1918-19 generated a resentment which contributed to interwar instability and Hitler's rise.


http://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/germans-prepare-to-protest-versailles-treaty-terms
	Presented with the treaty on May 7, 1919, the German delegation was given two weeks to examine the terms and submit their official comments in writing. The Germans, who had put great faith in U.S. President Woodrow Wilson’s notion of a so-called peace without victory and had pointed to his famous Fourteen Points as the basis upon which they sought peace in November 1918, were greatly angered and disillusioned by the treaty. As Ulrich von Brockdorff-Rantzau, Germany’s foreign minister, put it: This fat volume was quite unnecessary. They could have expressed the whole thing more simply in one clause—Germany renounces its existence.

	...The Versailles Treaty was signed on June 28, 1919. Meanwhile, opposition to the treaty and its Article 231, seen as a symbol of the injustice and harshness of the whole document, festered within Germany. As the years passed, full-blown hatred slowly settled into a smoldering resentment of the treaty and its authors, a resentment that would, two decades later, be counted—to an arguable extent—among the causes of the Second World War.


http://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/higher/history/nationalism/hitler/revision/2/
	The Nazi party policies were deliberately vague so they might appeal to as many people as possible. It was not unusual to find people of both right and moderate-left wing politics joining the Nazis because they agreed with one or more of their policies.

	* The Nazis were violently opposed to Communism. The Communists believed all private ownership of land and assets was theft. This led many landowners and businessmen to support the Nazis.
	* Their social policies, such as better pensions and reducing unemployment, appealed to the common man and also many traditional socialists.
	* The Nazis proclaimed that they would abolish the Treaty of Versailles, that they felt unfairly punished Germany. This was a popular policy for many Germans.
	* After losing territories at Versailles, the Nazis wanted Lebensraum (living space) for their surplus population. Bluntly, they wanted more land.

	...Throughout the 1920's good organisation, effective propaganda and rallies spread the popularity of the party all over Germany.


https://edsitement.neh.gov/sites/edsitement.neh.gov/files/worksheets/Hitlerspeech.pdf
	Speech on the Treaty of Versailles (April 17, 1923)
	
	Adolf Hitler

	With the armistice begins the humiliation of Germany.  If the Republic on the day of its foundation had appealed to the country: Germans, stand together!  Up and resist the foe!  The Fatherland, the Republic expects of you that you fight to your last breath, then millions who are now enemies of the Republic would be fanatical Republicans.  Today they are the foes of the Republic not because it is a Republic but because this Republic was founded at the moment when Germany was humiliated, because it so discredited the new flag that men's eyes must turn regretfully toward the old flag.

	So long as this Treaty stands there can be no resurrection of the German people; no social reform of any kind is possible!


https://books.google.com/books?id=GeOR5LbOQwsC&pg=PA275
	Markov II displayed himself as a forceful leader. He denounced the Treaty of Versailles in a fiery speech, claiming that it had "betrayed and sold Russia" He concluded to loud applause: "Russia does not recognize the Treaty of Versailles. We must give back to the Russian people what the Russian Tsars accumulated over the centuries." The Congress members decided to create a governing body, the Supreme Monarchical Council, which was to be located in Berlin under Markov II's leadership.


http://www.sscnet.ucla.edu/soc/groups/scr/kellogg.pdf
	The most important leaders of the far-right in Russian politics in the years before the First World War were Dubrovin, Nicholas Markov, known as Markov II, and Vladimir Purishkevich, who founded a mystically-inclined successor organization to the Union of the Russian People in 1908, the Union of the Archangel Michael. Cohn asserts that the members of the Union of the Russian People and their successors “were in fact the true precursors of the Nazis” since they believed that Jews formed a capitalist-revolutionary conspiracy aimed at world dictatorship and they advocated extreme means of solving the “Jewish question,” such as deportation or even extermination. Markov II predicted in a 1911 speech in the Duma, or parliament, “All the Yids, down to the very last, will be killed.’”


http://bookfi.net/dl/548070/5d8658
	The significance of substantial White émigré influences on Hitler’s Weltanschauung has become more apparent since Brigitte Hamann con- vincingly argued in her 1996 work, Hitlers Wien: Lehrjahre eines Diktators (Hitler’s Vienna: Apprentice Years of a Dictator), that Hitler was not yet anti- Semitic during his “hunger years” in Vienna from 1908 to 1913. He even defended the Jews in intense political arguments with those who denounced them. 11 Hamann’s book refutes the earlier historical consensus which had contended that Hitler developed an acutely anti-Semitic world-view during his time in Vienna.

	Further indications of the relatively late development of Hitler’s far right political ideas exist. Hitler’s correspondence and private writings from World War I (1914–1918) lack anti-Semitic passages. 13 Hitler’s comrades during World War I did not detect anti-Semitic views among his beliefs. 14 Moreover, according to Aide-de-Camp Hans Mend, Hitler’s immediate commanding officer on the Western Front in World War I, Hitler occa- sionally praised Jews, and he exhibited socialist leanings. He often held “rabble-rousing speeches” in which he called himself a representative of the “class-conscious proletariat.” 15 Hitler only began to crystallize his virulent anti-Bolshevik, anti-Semitic Weltanschauung in Munich in late 1919 in the context of intercultural collaboration between alienated völkisch Germans and radical White émigrés.


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP80B01676R003600070001-7.pdf
	It is far from my intention to minimize Hitler's responsibility for the Second World War or to make light of the crimes of which he and his confederates were guilty. Nevertheless, now that the passions inflamed by war have subsided, cooler and fairer judgements may be heard. It is no longer seriously disputed that the Treaty of Versailles was unjust. Eminent statesmen of that time, such as General Smuts, had profound misgivings about signing it, because they were convinced that it raised more problems than it settled, and that it carried the seeds of another war. It was in fact the indefensible defects of the Treaty that gave Hitler the opportunity to wrest from the German people the absolute power that he needed to fulfil his nefarious aims and policies.

	The unworkable and misleading requirement, of unanimity, cunningly inserted into the Covenant of the League of Nations - just as a like requirement was later inserted in the Charter of the United Nations Organization — effectually prevented any peaceful change. So the Peace Treaties could not be revised and the situation steadily deteriorated until it became utterly intolerable. All the Western Powers now acknowledge that the Paris Peace Treaties were responsible for the rise of bitter discord and intransigent nationalism. The late Mr. Foster Dulles, Who, as a young diplomatist, had been present at Versailles in 1919, deplored "the unfortunate consequences" of these treaties, and expressly warned against the folly of again imposing upon Germany the burden of an unworkable peace. In May, 1959, at the Geneva Conference, Mr. Christian Herter, too, mentioned "the awful results of the Treaty of Versailles" and absolutely rejected the Russian peace plan for Germany, saying: "The Soviet proposal harbours the seeds of future discord and conflict." Ever since 1919, few inhabitants of the Danubian Valley have failed to understand that the political and economic arrangements devised in 1919 and 1920 were untenable; but; Paris, London, and Washington would have none of it.


https://collab.itc.virginia.edu/access/content/group/bf18c8cb-75a1-4dc1-8d3e-109c2cea5178/schuker.1919PeaceSettlement.pdf
	Twenty years ago Sally Marks famously complained about the tendency of American diplomatic historians to look exclusively at American sources and to present “the world according to Washington.”


http://www.h-net.org/reviews/showrev.php?id=7870
	Margaret MacMillan. Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World.

	Reviewed by Sally Marks (Independent Scholar)

	MacMillan punctures a number of long-standing myths about the Versailles treaty with Germany. She declares firmly that a real defeat was not brought home to the German people, that the power of the peacemakers was limited, that they were not responsible for the fragmentation of Europe which predated their labors, and that the blockade did not starve Germany. More importantly, neither the Versailles treaty nor France was vindictive, reparations were not crushing, the treaty was not enforced with any consistency, and it did not seriously restrict German power, for Germany (where East Prussia had been separated from other portions for most of its history) had an improved strategic position under it. Most especially, while acknowledging that the peacemakers made mistakes, particularly outside Europe, she rightly asserts that the Versailles treaty was not primarily responsible for either the next twenty years or for World War II. These views have been discussed for a generation in the scholarly literature. Yet the old propaganda-driven myths persist in popular literature, the press, and the minds of educated non-experts. In her determined effort to slay these dragons, MacMillan has done a great service.	

	...Yet the bibliography and footnotes attest to MacMillan's wide reading and careful combing of recent scholarship, especially The Treaty of Versailles: A Reassessment after 75 Years. The bibliography precedes the footnotes which for some reason is extremely unhandy... This is not entirely satisfactory. An attempt to find the origin of an erroneous statement on Russia's 1918 reparations obligation to Germany in the middle of a paragraph on German financial questions (p. 185, n. 14) produced three perfectly good citations on Germany but nothing on Russia.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk%3AWorld_War_I_reparations
	This article seems to have been the target of POV pushing. Note especially these two sets of edits: [1], [2].

    The first enlarged the article from 17,243 bytes to 37,476 bytes and, some minor copyediting aside, the enlargement is almost exclusively due to stating over and over again that the Germans could have paid the reparations and did not do so out of political calculations.

	...The POV pushing can also be learned from the sources used: John Maynard Keynes, eminent economist and financial representative for England in Versailles is used for 3 sentences. Meanwhile Sally Marks (who is that?) is used as a source a whooping 43(!) times, for a total of several paragraphs. The unknown french economist Étienne Mantoux is also cited at length to disprove Keynes calculations (a ridiculous excercise, since data is taken from years when the original reparations had already been reduced).


http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/670825
	Mistakes and Myths: The Allies, Germany, and the Versailles Treaty, 1918–1921
	Sally Marks [pg 26]

	Germany's constant revisionism operated in tandem with that of Britain, especially as frequent Anglo-French division rendered success possible. A German scholar noted that Germany suffered the "widespread illusion" that it could escape the consequences of the treaty by "passive noncompliance" As the United States withdrew from Europe and Britain tried to do so, Berlin recalled that it had not been defeated by continental powers and saw possibilities, spurring it to more revisionism. Some moves were costly, but Germany had funds for what it wanted. Myth making and propaganda continued until Russia's reluctant 1914 defensive mobilization became seen as a cause of the war

	...However, it is time--and past time--to abandon old myths and simplistic propaganda-driven explanations and to address instead the inherent problems and the real reasons why this cornerstone of the interwar era has for so long attracted torrents of criticism despite the contrary opinion of those who know it best.


...


https://books.google.com/books?id=X2eTBtFWQdUC&pg=PA30
	The Russian emigration was a seedbed of conspiracies and clandestine figures, a vast shadowland of grand ambitions and shabby realities. All this was so because of past-war unsettlement, because of the circumstances of the exile and an unrelenting commitment to counterrevolution, and because in a world awash with opportunities from gunrunning to selling information to tracking down spies, ex-czarist officers on-the-make were available and where most often the people to turn to. Their political adventurism fit into the wider pattern of intrusiveness by which the great events of the period pressed in on people and became in inescapable presence or fact of their lives. For White Russians who emerged out of war and revolution this intrusiveness was simply a norm; but it showed up as well in the way their politics were absorbed into the politics of others--Soviet politics, German politics, Spanish politics, Japanese politics--that is, into the greater power struggles of their day. Likewise White Russians revealed the flux of the period in their desire to reverse historical change but also in the range of possibilities open to individuals within their milieu. Before the war the riddle was, who worked for the Okhrana and who did not. A similar question was compounded by combinations that took one to Sofia, Burgos, Tokyo, and Berlin.


https://www.gwern.net/docs/terrorism/1989-andrew.pdf
	The KGB also penetrated and subverted the Paris headquarters of the remnants of the White Armies that had been defeated in the Civil War. The climax of that penetration was the kidnap and assassination of two successive heads of the White Guards, General Aleksandr Kutyepov in 1930 and General Yevgeny Miller in 1937. Emigre Trotskyists were penetrated, undermined, and their leaders assassinated in almost identical fashion. The chief aide of Trotsky's son, Lev Sedov, the main Trotskyist organiser in Western Europe, was the KGB agent, Mark Zborowski. Sedov was liquidated in 1938, followed by several other leading Trotskyists and finally by the great heretic himself in Mexico in 1940.

	By the 1930s, however, the most important targets of KGB penetration operations were Western governments and official bureaucracies. 


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/books-and-monographs/okhrana-the-paris-operations-of-the-russian-imperial-police/5474-1.html
	Harting's case officer was Pyotr Rachkovsky, probably the ablest head of the Okhrana's Foreign Bureau. Rachkovsky was a pioneer. He refined the art of what we today call active measures or perceptions management techniques. 	

	...According to one authority, Rachkovsky was a "born intriguer" who "delighted" in forging documents. He allegedly was among those responsible for the anti-Semitic Protocols of the Elders of Zion, perhaps the most infamous political forgery of the 20th century. Rachkovsky's tactic of exploiting anti-Semitism for political purposes was used repeatedly during the Soviet era--for example, in Hungary in 1956, in Czechoslovakia in 1968, and in Poland in the 1980s. Such scapegoating also was evident in the so-called "Doctors Plot" in the early 1950s, when a group of Jewish doctors was accused of plotting to kill Stalin and other Soviet leaders.


http://www.sscnet.ucla.edu/soc/groups/scr/kellogg.pdf
	The greatest piece of “evidence”  that right-wing Russian elements used to support their assertions of a Jewish world-conspiracy came in the form of a vitriolic tract best known as The Protocols of the Elders of Zion. ...The Protocols were most likely fabricated in 1897 or 1898 in Paris.  The Protocols critique liberalism, claiming that it is a tool for the Jews to gain world-domination by fomenting discontent and revolt so that they can use the ensuing chaos to establish a Jewish despot to rule over the world.

	...It is important to note that the Protocols were not widely distributed in pre-Revolutionary Russian society, even in reactionary circles. They were not "discovered" until after the outbreak of the Bolshevik Revolution, after which they were widely distributed among the "White" forces during the Russian Civil War.


http://bookfi.net/dl/548070/5d8658
	Hausen is best known not for publicizing the Zunder Document, but for publishing The Protocols of the Elders of Zion. He printed the Protocols for the first time in German in 1919.

	...Hausen received information on Nilus’ personality and on the provenance of the Protocols from an intelligence agency in Berlin under General Kurlov, who had earlier served as the head of the Imperial Russian Okhrana. He had managed to be expelled...before resurfacing in Berlin and establishing his intelligence organization.

	...In April 1920, Kommissarov began working for the intelligence agency that his old protector in the Tsarist Secret Police, General Kurlov, had recently established in Berlin to provide anti-Bolshevik information to White émigrés in Germany. Despite the mistrust that he had engendered among rightist circles in the past, Kommissarov used his considerable intellectual gifts and social adroitness to find his way quickly into high society wherever he went. He began circulating in right-wing monarchical circles in Munich. He worked especially diligently to gain General Ludendorff’s favor. At the same time, however, he initiated contact with Bolshevik representatives in Germany and provided them with information on anti-Soviet activities in Germany.

	...Kommissarov, a prominent member of the Saint Petersburg Okhrana, provided the Union with additional support. ...After the outbreak of socialist revolution in the Russian Empire in 1905, he established a clandestine printing press in the basement of Okhrana headquarters. He used this press to print anti-Semitic leaflets calling for pogroms. He lost his position because of his unauthorized dissemination of pogrom literature, but his writings galvanized Black Hundred violence against Jews and socialist revolutionaries.

	...These fearsome groups gave their name to the Russian far right from 1905 to 1917. Black Hundreds carried out anti-revolutionary pogroms in October 1905 in which they killed a total of 1,622 people, 711 of whom were Jews. The pogroms of October 1905 proved the worst manifestation of Black Hundred violence.  Despite the Union’s use of illegal Black Hundred squads to terrorize and assassinate Jewish and socialist opponents, Imperial authorities supported the Union. Piotr Rachkovskii, the head of the Okhrana (Tsarist Secret Police) abroad, supported the Union’s activities. He even acted as Union leader Dubrovin’s advisor.  Representatives of the Union received even greater official recognition when they met with Tsar Nikolai Romanov II in December 1905. The Tsar assured them: “I am counting on you.”

	...Kommissarov proved a most colorful adventurer who underwent many permutations in his career of intrigue and deceit. He ultimately helped to establish Aufbau, the Munich-based völkisch German/White émigré organization that greatly influenced the National Socialist movement, in 1920 as a double agent before he openly joined the Soviet cause. 


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aufbau_Vereinigung
	The Aufbau Vereinigung (Reconstruction Organisation) was a Munich-based counterrevolutionary conspiratorial group formed in the aftermath of the German occupation of the Ukraine in 1918 and of the Latvian Intervention of 1919. It brought together White Russian émigrés and early German National Socialists who aimed to overthrow the governments of Germany and the Soviet Union, replacing them with authoritarian régimes of the far right. The group was originally known as Die Bruecke (The Bridge). Aufbau was also the name of a periodical it brought out.

	According to Michael Kellogg, the Aufbau Vereinigung was a vital influence on the development of Nazi ideology in the years before the Beer Hall Putsch of 1923 as well as financing NSDAP with, for example, funds from Henry Ford. It gave Hitler the idea of a vast Jewish conspiracy, involving a close alliance between international finance and Bolshevism and threatening disaster for mankind. Recent research on Hitler's early years in Vienna (1905-1913) appears to have shown that his antisemitism was at that time far less developed than it became under the new influences.

	...After the death of Scheubner-Richter in the putsch, Aufbau rapidly declined, and notions of Lebensraum and Slavic inferiority, naturally unpopular with the Russians, gained a stronger hold on the Nazi movement.

	The long-term influence of Aufbau has been traced in the implementation of the final solution and in Hitler's disastrous decision to divert troops away from Moscow towards the Ukraine in 1941.

	Prominent members of Aufbau included:
	- Max Erwin von Scheubner-Richter (a Baltic German from the Russian Empire)
	- Alfred Rosenberg (a Baltic German from the Russian Empire)
	- Fyodor Vinberg (Russian officer)
	- Piotr Shabelsky-Bork (Russian officer)
	- General Vasili Biskupsky (Russian officer)
	- Erich Ludendorff


http://bookfi.net/dl/548070/5d8658
	...One of Kurlov’s collaborators, Lieutenant Iurii Kartsov, also provided Hausen with information on Nilus. While Aufbau’s leading personality Max von Scheubner-Richter later praised him as one of many fine “Russian patriots,” Kartsov had a reputation as an “utterly undependable” person. He possessed significant connections in Berlin through his work for the German intelligence agency in the Ukraine in 1918. He had dealings with Vinberg, Shabelskii-Bork, and Taboritskii, who were close to Hausen.

	...Scheubner-Richter also introduced Hitler to General Ludendorff in the framework of Aufbau, thereby setting in motion a political alliance that culminated in the calamitous November 1923 Hitler/Ludendorff Putsch.

	...First Secretary Scheubner-Richter and Vice President Biskupskii de facto led Aufbau. Hitler collaborated closely with Aufbau from 1920 to 1923. At least four White emigre Aufbau members also belonged to the National Socialist Party: Scheubner-Richter, Deputy Director Arno Schickedanz, who had fought in the Latvian Intervention, and two close collaborators with Hitler's mentor Eckart, Otto von Kursell and Rosenberg. 


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alfred_Rosenberg
	Rosenberg was born on 12 January 1893 in Reval in the Russian Empire – today known as Tallinn, the capital of modern Estonia – to a family of Baltic Germans. His father, Waldemar Wilhelm Rosenberg, was a wealthy merchant from Latvia, and his mother, Elfriede (née Siré), was from Estonia.

	...Following the invasion of the USSR, Rosenberg was appointed head of the Reich Ministry for the Occupied Eastern Territories (Reichsministerium für die besetzten Ostgebiete). Alfred Meyer served as his deputy and represented him at the Wannsee Conference. Another official of the Ministry, Georg Leibbrandt, also attended the conference, at Rosenberg's request.

	Rosenberg had presented Hitler with his plan for the organization of the conquered Eastern territories, suggesting the establishment of new administrative districts, to replace the previously Soviet-controlled territories with new Reichskommissariats.

	...Although Rosenberg regarded all the Soviet peoples as subhumans for their communist beliefs, such suggestions were intended to encourage certain non-Russian nationalism and to promote German interests for the benefit of future Aryan generations, in accord with geopolitical "Lebensraum im Osten" plans. They would provide a buffer against Soviet expansion in preparation for the total eradication of Communism and Bolshevism by decisive pre-emptive military action.

	Following these plans, when Wehrmacht forces invaded Soviet-controlled territory, they immediately implemented the first of the proposed Reichskommissariats of Ostland and Ukraine


http://bookfi.net/dl/548070/5d8658
	Rosenberg held high posts in the Third Reich, such as leader of the National Socialist Foreign Policy Office along with his colleague Schickedanz and State Minister for the Occupied Eastern Territories. Hitler and Rosenberg worked to detach the Ukraine from the Soviet Union in collaboration with Poltavets-Ostranitsa. During World War II, Hitler’s desire to gain the Ukraine for Germany in the tradition of Aufbau led him to divert strong formations of the German Army southwards away from Moscow in 1941, thereby granting the Red Army a valuable respite. 


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Sorge
	Richard Sorge (October 4, 1895 – November 7, 1944) was a Soviet military intelligence officer, active before and during World War II, working as an undercover German journalist in both Nazi Germany and the Empire of Japan.

	...Sorge supplied Soviet intelligence with information about the Anti-Comintern Pact and the German-Japanese Pact. In 1941, through his Embassy contacts, he learned of Operation Barbarossa, the imminent Axis invasion of the USSR, and even the approximate date. Moscow received the report, but ultimately Joseph Stalin and other top leaders ignored Sorge's warnings, as well as those of other sources.


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/kent-csi/vol9no4/html/v09i4a09p_0001.htm
	Richard Sorge has been surfaced in the Soviet Union by means of a series of newspaper articles and popular books. ...Sorge is presented as a paragon of virtue; his weakness for alcohol and women is ignored.

	...Although Moscow has for some reason suppressed Gorev's account, the glorification campaign has continued unabated since late 1964. Persons who knew Sorge even slightly have given interviews for publication.

	...It is clear that the Soviet authorities wish to present Sorge as a popular hero but have no desire at this time to publish an accurate history of his intelligence operation.


http://www.thechristiansolution.com/doc2014/605_RichardSorge.html
	World's Greatest Spy

	"Richard Sorge was the best spy of all time."


http://www.thechristiansolution.com/doc2015/702_PutinPalmyra.html
	Putin, Savior of Western Civilization


http://rbth.com/arts/2016/01/07/richard-sorge-the-master-spy-who-helped-alter-the-course-of-ww2_554247
	Richard Sorge: The master spy who helped alter the course of WW2
	
	January 7, 2016 Ajay Kamalakaran, RBTH 


http://in.rbth.com/articles/2012/12/18/india_prepares_to_welcome_a_true_statesman_21109
	India prepares to welcome a True Statesman

	18 December 2012 Ajay Kamalakaran

	There is a lot that emerging India can learn from Vladimir Putin in terms of diplomacy and undertaking of international responsibilities.


http://www.historynet.com/what-if-the-germans-had-captured-moscow-in-1941.htm
	One of the classic "what ifs" of the Second World War centers on how—or if—the German invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941, code-named Operation Barbarossa, could have achieved a quick victory. ...What went wrong?

	...Others have pointed to Hitler's decision in August to divert most of the armored units attached to Field Marshal Fedor von Bock's Army Group Center, whose objective was Moscow, and send them south to support an effort to surround and capture the Soviet armies around Kiev, the capital of Ukraine. ...it delayed the resumption of major operations against Moscow until early autumn. This, many historians argue, was a fatal blunder.

	Yet, as historian David M. Glantz points out, such a scenario ignores what the Soviet armies around Kiev might have done had they not been trapped, and introduces too many variables to make for a good counterfactual.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Glantz
	Glantz is known as a military historian of the Soviet role in World War II. He is perhaps most associated with the thesis that World War II Soviet military history has been prejudiced in the West by its over-reliance on German oral and printed sources, without being balanced by a similar examination of Soviet source material; a more complete version of this thesis can be found in his paper "The Failures of Historiography: Forgotten Battles of the German-Soviet War (1941-1945)." Glantz has also, however, met with some criticism for his stylistic choices, such as inventing specific thoughts and feelings of historical figures without reference to documented sources


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soviet_offensive_plans_controversy
	The Soviet offensive plans controversy refers to the debate among historians on the question of whether Soviet leader Joseph Stalin was planning to attack Axis forces in Eastern Europe prior to Operation Barbarossa.

	While most agree that Stalin made extensive preparations for an eventual war and exploited the military conflict in Europe to his advantage, the assertions that he planned to attack Nazi Germany in the summer of 1941, and that Barbarossa was a preemptive strike by Adolf Hitler, are generally discounted according to David M. Glantz.

	...David M. Glantz disputes the argument that the Red Army was deployed in an offensive stance in 1941. According to Glantz, the Red Army was only in a state of partial mobilization in July 1941, from which neither effective defensive or offensive actions could be offered without considerable delay.


https://kansaspress.ku.edu/978-0-7006-2120-0.html
	When Titans Clashed

	How the Red Army Stopped Hitler

	David M. Glantz

	In swift and stirring prose, When Titans Clash provides the clearest, most complete account of this epic struggle, especially from the Soviet perspective. Drawing on the massive and unprecedented release of Soviet archival documents in recent decades, David Glantz, one of the world's foremost authorities on the Soviet military, and noted military historian Jonathan House expand and elaborate our picture of the Soviet war effort—a picture sharply different from accounts that emphasize Hitler's failed leadership over Soviet strategy and might.


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...globalresearch.ca .. russia-insider.com ... zerohedge.com


http://www.globalresearch.ca/world-war-ii-the-decisive-role-of-the-russian-people-in-defeating-nazi-germany/5619
	On the other hand, the memoirs and archives of the Soviet military and political leadership were dismissed by Western authors.  They failed to serve as a scholarly and ideological “counterbalance” opposing the flow of literature by former Hitlerites. The war-time recollections published in the USSR were subject to an ideological censorship in the West so severe that oftentimes they lost any value as sources of historical knowledge.

	The first attempts to assess in a more realistic way the respective roles of the Eastern and Western Fronts were made in the West nearly 30 years after the end of WWII.

	John Erickson, a British historian, was among the first to move in this direction – in his books “The Road to Stalingrad” (1975) and “The Road to Berlin” (1983);  he demonstrated the magnitude of the actual contribution of the Eastern Front to the defeat of Nazi Germany. Next, David M. Glantz, a US military historian, wrote several books about the war on the Russian front. In 1989-2006, he published 16 works including “When Titans Clashed: How the Red Army Stopped Hitler”.


http://russia-insider.com/en/yes-russia-still-ready-war-even-nuclear-war/5324
	I fully agree with a recent article on Russia Insider entitled “NATO Would Probably Lose A War Against Russia“.  I don’t know who “Shellback” who wrote this article is, but I can immediately recognize a fellow “cold warrior” who, like me, must have spent many hours studying the works of V.G. Reznichenko and David Glantz and who knows what he is talking about.


https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-04-29/unmasking-the-men-behind-zero-hedge-wall-street-s-renegade-blog


http://www.zerohedge.com/article/guest-post-russia%E2%80%99s-world-war-ii-experience-needs-be-better-understood?page=4
	Russia’s World War II Experience Needs To Be Better Understood

	It has been an article of faith among many Americans, young and old, that the United States “won” World War II.  And clearly our contribution in men and materiel was indispensable to the Allied victory…especially in the Pacific of course. But because of Cold War tensions immediately following the end of the conflict, Americans were never really given an accurate portrayal of how the victory in Europe against Nazi Germany went down. 

	...It is an old axiom that the war in Europe was won with British brains, American brawn, and Russian blood.  A lot of Russian blood.
	
	...Col. David Glantz has done some great work that is changing the intepretation of the Ostfront which hitherto has been dominated by German and very biased Soviet work


http://sti.clemson.edu/publications-mainmenu-38/commentaries-mainmenu-211/cat_view/33-strom-thurmond-institute/153-sti-publications-by-subject-area/158-history
	The Soviet-German War 1941-1945: Myths and Realities: A Survey Essay by David M. Glantz

	A Paper Presented as the 20th Anniversary Distinguished Lecture at the Strom Thurmond Institute of Government and Public Affairs

	Despite its massive scale, scope, cost, and global impact, it is indeed ironic that much of the Soviet Union’s Great Patriotic War remains obscure and imperfectly understood by Westerners and Russians alike. Worse still, this obscurity and misunderstanding has perverted the history of World War II overall by masking the Red Army’s and Soviet State’s contributions to ultimate Allied victory.

	...The Role of Lend-Lease in Allied Victory:
	
	Another controversial Allied contribution to the war effort was the Lend-Lease program of aid to the Soviet Union. Although Soviet accounts have routinely belittled the significance of Lend-Lease in sustaining the Soviet war effort, the overall importance of this assistance cannot be understated. Lend-Lease aid did not arrive in sufficient quantities to make the difference between defeat and victory in 1941-42; that achievement must be attributed solely to the Soviet people and to the iron nerve of Stalin, Zhukov, Shaposhnikov, Vasilevsky, and their subordinates.

	...Left to their own devices, Stalin and his commanders might have taken 12 to 18 months longer to finish off the Wehrmacht; the ultimate result would probably have been the same


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/vol47no1/article02.html
	To advance this policy, he relied heavily on Davies. In March 1943, when the Ambassador to the USSR at the time, Adm. William H. Standley, complained in Moscow that the Soviet authorities had concealed the extent of American Lend-Lease aid from the Soviet people, FDR feared that Stalin would take offense. Chastising Standley, he informed him that his sole purpose in Moscow was “full and friendly cooperation” with the Soviet Union.


http://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/fdr-introduces-the-lend-lease-program
	Roosevelt, mindful of the inherent conflict between American democracy and Soviet communism, counted on using U.S. military aid to the Soviet Union as a bargaining chip in post-war diplomatic relations.


https://www.britannica.com/event/Yalta-Conference
	After the agreements reached at Yalta were made public in 1946, they were harshly criticized in the United States. This was because, as events turned out, Stalin failed to keep his promise that free elections would be held in Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania, and Bulgaria. Instead, communist governments were established in all those countries, noncommunist political parties were suppressed, and genuinely democratic elections were never held. At the time of the Yalta Conference, both Roosevelt and Churchill had trusted Stalin and believed that he would keep his word. Neither leader had suspected that Stalin intended that all the popular front governments in Europe would be taken over by communists.


https://www.courthousenews.com/us-deports-russian-spy-tied-trump-camp/
	“I think he is an idiot and forgot who I am. … He got hooked on Gazprom thinking that if they have a project, he could rise up. I also promised him a lot … This is intelligence method to cheat, how else to work with foreigners? You promise a favor for a favor. You get the documents from him and tell him to go fuck himself.”


https://history.state.gov/milestones/1937-1945/us-soviet
	President Roosevelt responded by dispatching his trusted aide Harry Lloyd Hopkins to Moscow in order to assess the Soviet military situation. Although the War Department had warned the President that the Soviets would not last more than six weeks, after two one-on-one meetings with Soviet Premier Josef Stalin, Hopkins urged Roosevelt to assist the Soviets. By the end of October, the first Lend-Lease aid to the Soviet Union was on its way.


http://wunc.org/post/former-spymaster-three-decades-cia
	"But even on into the 20th century, in the 1930s and 1940s when the Soviets basically riddle the FDR administration and the Manhattan Project with - now they're estimating - about 500 spies."


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venona_project#Bearing_of_Venona_on_particular_cases
	However, Vasily Mitrokhin was a KGB archivist who defected from the Soviet Union with copies of KGB files. He claimed Harry Hopkins was a secret Russian agent. Moreover, Oleg Gordievsky, a high-level KGB officer who also defected from the Soviet Union, reported that Iskhak Akhmerov, the KGB officer who controlled the clandestine Soviet agents in the U.S. during the war, had said Hopkins was "the most important of all Soviet wartime agents in the United States."


http://sti.clemson.edu/publications-mainmenu-38/commentaries-mainmenu-211/cat_view/33-strom-thurmond-institute/153-sti-publications-by-subject-area/158-history
	The Soviet-German War 1941-1945: Myths and Realities: A Survey Essay by David M. Glantz

	Even those who are better informed about the details of the Soviet-German War share in these common misperceptions.

	Who then is at fault for promoting this unbalanced view of the war? Certainly Western historians who wrote about the war from only the German perspective share part of the blame. However, they argue with considerable justification that they did so because only German sources were available to them.


http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/670825
	Mistakes and Myths: The Allies, Germany, and the Versailles Treaty, 1918–1921
	Sally Marks

	...As Steiner observed, the German view of the treaty has prevailed, especially among nonexperts in the English-speaking world, thanks to prolonged, intense Anglo-German propaganda, including Keyne's brilliant but warped polemic.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockade_of_Germany
	The blockade was maintained for eight months after the Armistice in November 1918, into the following year of 1919. According to the New Cambridge Modern History food imports into Germany were controlled by the Allies after the Armistice with Germany until Germany signed the Treaty of Versailles in June 1919.

	...However, Sally Marks believes that the German accounts of a hunger blockade are a "myth".


http://www.newcriterion.com/articles.cfm/Guilt-trip--Versailles--avant-garde---kitsch-7942
	Guilt trip: Versailles, avant-garde & kitsch

	by Roger Kimball

	Perhaps this is the place to note how close Keynes was to the German parties of the Treaty.  ...Posterity has not, Ferguson notes, appreciated “the extent to which Keynes was manipulated by his German friends” or “the extent to which he erred in his analysis of the consequences of the peace.”


http://www.nytimes.com/2004/02/21/arts/a-job-for-rewrite-stalin-s-war.html
	A Job for Rewrite: Stalin's War

	By BENJAMIN SCHWARZ

	For the most part, then, scholars were forced to rely heavily on German sources, which presented an extremely distorted view of events. 


http://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/seven-questions-for-benjamin-schwarz/
	Schwarz: First, I should make clear that (a) I believe that America is neither an exceptional nor an indispensible nation and (b) I’m a patriot. ...But I don’t think our history shows us as any better—or any worse —than many other countries.  ...No doubt Vladimir Putin sees America’s protestations over his pursuit of what he perceives as his country’s security interest as little more than the smug and aggressive braying of insufferable hypocrites.


http://fmso.leavenworth.army.mil/documents/failures.htm
	The Failures of Historiography: Forgotten Battles of the German-Soviet War (1941-1945)
	COL David M. Glantz

	Who then is at fault for this unbalanced view? Western historians who wrote on the war from only the German perspective deserve part of the blame. But they would argue, correctly, that they did so because they used the only sources available. 

	...In general, Western appreciation of the Soviet view has been inhibited by three fundamental barriers to understanding: an ignorance of the scope of Soviet writing on the subject, an inability to obtain and read what Soviet historians have written (the language barrier), and an unwillingness to accept what those historians have written. 


http://bookfi.net/dl/548070/5d8658i
	Russian Origins of Nazism

	Archival materials housed in Moscow that have only recently become available to historians in particular necessitate a reevaluation of White émigré contributions to National Socialism. During the summer of 1945, Soviet occupying forces in German Lower Silesia discovered vast German archives as well as great amounts of documents that the Germans had seized from occupied countries, most notably France and Poland. The entire archival collection was transported to Moscow, where it was stored in secrecy from the public and even from workers in other Soviet archives. While Soviet authorities returned some of these records to East Germany during the Cold War, most of the seized archival collection remained under wraps in Moscow.

	Russian authorities only admitted to possessing files looted from Germany and declassified them in 1991 after the Soviet Union had collapsed. Historians were allowed to investigate the huge archival collection at the Center for the Preservation of Historical-Documentary Collections, which had become part of the Russian State Military Archives by the time I examined materials there in 1999–2001. I was temporarily denied access to the former Center in March 2001, likely as part of the chilled American–Russian relations that arose after the February 2001 arrest of the FBI operative Robert Hanssen as a double agent for both the Soviets and the Russians.

	In its heyday, the former Center contained large amounts of files dealing with National Socialist–White émigré collaboration, including reports from Hitler’s Geheime Staatspolizei (Secret State Police, commonly known as the Gestapo) and the Reichskommissar für die Überwachung der öffentlichen Ordnung (State Commissioner for the Supervision of Public Order), the secret intelligence office of the Weimar Republic that reported on political developments and observed foreigners in Germany. Regrettably, many State Commissioner files, most likely including one devoted specifically to Aufbau, have long been housed at the Sluzhba vneshnoi razvetki (Foreign Intelligence Service), where historians are not allowed to examine them. As a further hindrance, Russian authorities “temporarily” transferred the remaining State Commissioner documents there during the summer of 2001, fortunately after I had examined them thoroughly. I believe that I am the last Western scholar to investigate these valuable materials.


http://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-32066222
	And there are details too of endless Soviet-East German social gatherings Putin attended, to celebrate ties between the two countries.

	...He and his KGB colleagues frantically burned evidence of their intelligence work.

	"I personally burned a huge amount of material," Putin recalled in First Person. "We burned so much stuff that the furnace burst."


http://fmso.leavenworth.army.mil/documents/failures.htm
	The Failures of Historiography: Forgotten Battles of the German-Soviet War (1941-1945)
	COL David M. Glantz

	Investigation of all of these issues and others will cast more accurate light on the war and will help dispel the many myths that the war has produced, myths which have and will continue to victimize the Soviet (Russian) Army and Soviet (Russian) historiography. In the final analysis, the old axiom remains correct -- that it is better to relate one's own history than to have someone else relate it. 


https://twitter.com/rusembusa/status/763165930411036672
	David Glantz, major US historian of #WWII, decorated with @mod_russia medal 'For strengthening comradeship-in-arms'.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alfred_Rosenberg
	...German propaganda efforts designed to win over Russian opinion were, at best, patchy and inconsistent. Alfred Rosenberg was one of the few in the Nazi hierarchy who advocated a policy designed to encourage anti-Communist opinion among the population of the occupied territories. His interest here was mainly in the non-Russian areas such as the Ukraine and the Baltic States


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Propaganda_in_the_Soviet_Union
	Stalin himself declared in a 1941 broadcast that Germany waged war to exterminate the peoples of the USSR. Propaganda published in Pravda denounced all Germans as killers, bloodsuckers, and cannibals, and much play was made of atrocity claims. Hatred was actively and overtly encouraged.

	...Anti-fascism was commonly used in propaganda aimed outside the USSR during the 1930s, particularly to draw people into front organizations. The Spanish Civil War was, in particular, used to quash dissent among European Communist parties and reports of Stalin's growing totalitarianism.

	...The presence of a real enemy was used to inspire action and production in face of the threat to the Father Soviet Union, or Mother Russia. ...It was termed the "Great Patriotic War" and stories presented it as a fight of ordinary people's heroism.

	...In the 1960s, reviving memories of the Great Patriotic War was used to bolster support for the regime


http://euromaidanpress.com/2014/10/28/no-russian-fairytale/
	Until recently, 28 October was celebrated in Ukraine as the “Day of liberation of Ukraine from fascist invaders.” On the round date of 70 years of this date in 2014, Ukraine’s Institute of National Memory proposes to rename the holiday the “Day of the expulsion of Nazi occupants,” and not the liberation of Ukraine.

	“After 28 October 1944, Ukraine had not become a free country, therefore liberation is an incorrect term. Liberation means freedom, liberty, but in 1944 Ukraine had not become free. After the expulsion of Nazi occupiers Ukraine found itself under Soviet domination which resulted in mass repressions and the deportations of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians, Poles, and Crimean Tatars. The thesis of “70 years since liberation” is a continuation of the Soviet propaganda clichés that still serve Russia in the war with Ukraine”


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_portrayal_of_the_Ukrainian_crisis
	Media portrayals of the Ukrainian crisis, including 2014 unrest and the 2014 Ukrainian revolution following the Euromaidan movement, differed widely between Ukrainian, western and Russian media. In particular, the Russian media was accused of propagandizing, and of waging an information war during its coverage of the events. Russian channels were repeatedly criticized for the use of misleading images, false narratives, misrepresentation, suppression, and fabricated news stories, such as a child's crucifixion and the death of a 10-year-old in shelling. The BBC reported that Russian state television "appears to employ techniques of psychological conditioning designed to excite extreme emotions of aggression and hatred in the viewer", which, according to The Guardian, is part of a coordinated "informational-psychological war operation"

	...The Russian media consistently portrayed the crisis in Ukraine as having been instigated by the post-Yanukovych Ukrainian government, and represented Euromaidan as being controlled by "ultranationalist", "fascist", "neo-Nazi", and "anti-Semitic" groups

	...The Russian media focused particularly on Right Sector, portraying the group as powerful, fascist, and neo-Nazi and saying that it was persecuting Russian-speakers and Jews


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alfred_Rosenberg
	In January 1934 Hitler had appointed Rosenberg as the cultural and educational leader of the Reich.

	...In a 18 November 1941 press conference speaking about the Jewish Question, he said:

    		...Some six million Jews still live in the East, and this question can only be solved by a biological extermination of the whole of Jewry in Europe. The Jewish Question will only be solved for Germany when the last Jew has left German territory, and for Europe when not a single Jew stands on the European continent as far as the Urals... And to this end it is necessary to force them beyond the Urals or otherwise bring about their eradication.

	...Hitler was a leader oriented towards practical politics, whereas, for Rosenberg, religion and philosophy were key and culturally he was the most influential within the party. Several accounts of the time before the Nazi ascension to power, indeed, speak of Hitler as being a mouthpiece for Rosenberg's views, and he clearly exerted a great deal of intellectual influence.


https://www.ushmm.org/wlc/en/article.php?ModuleId=10007058
	Nazi party ideologue Alfred Rosenberg introduced Hitler to the Protocols during the early 1920s, as Hitler was developing his worldview. Hitler referred to the Protocols in some of his early political speeches, and, throughout his career, he exploited the myth that "Jewish-Bolshevists" were conspiring to control the world.

	During the 1920s and 1930s, The Protocols of the Elders of Zion played an important part in the Nazis' propaganda arsenal. The Nazi party published at least 23 editions of the Protocols between 1919 and 1939. Following the Nazis' seizure of power in 1933, some schools used the Protocols to indoctrinate students. 

	...The area under his authority was the first to see the “Final Solution of the Jewish Question” carried out through the systematic murder of Jewish men, women, and children. By the end of 1941, more than half a million Jews had been annihilated; Estonia, part of the “Reichskommissariat Ostland” was the first German-occupied region declared to be “free of Jews.” Since November 1941, trains with Jews deported from the Reich arrived in the “Ostland.” SS and police officers together with Rosenberg's officials made sure that the deportees were either killed immediately on arrival or exploited in forced labor projects few could survive.

	The importance of the events in the occupied Soviet Union for the history of the Holocaust can hardly be overestimated. Despite its constant power struggles with the SS and other German agencies, Rosenberg's ministry played a key role in the evolution of the “Final Solution.” His Reich Ministry was the only government agency to send not one, but two representatives to the notorious Wannsee Conference convened by Reinhard Heydrich on January 20, 1942, to coordinate the next steps towards the mass murder of Jews in German-controlled Europe.


http://bookfi.net/dl/548070/5d8658
	Aufbau thought significantly influenced early National Socialist ideology, and Aufbau bequeathed a powerful legacy to National Socialism after 1923 as well. Scheubner-Richter’s death in the Hitler/Ludendorff Putsch served as an example of heroic sacrifice for the National Socialist cause. Biskupskii continued to channel funds to the NSDAP after 1923, and he led White émigrés in the Third Reich as the head of the Russian Trust Authority. 

	...Moreover, Aufbau’s early warnings of the “Jewish Bolshevik” peril radicalized later National Socialist anti-Bolshevism and anti-Semitism. After a period of compromise while attaining power and then consolidating their rule, Hitler’s National Socialists returned to their original intense anti-Bolshevik and anti-Semitic roots, which Aufbau had greatly influenced, by invading the Soviet Union and exterminating millions of Jews in the Final Solution. As the State Minister for the Occupied Eastern Territories, Rosenberg aided Hitler in both of these quintessentially National Socialist undertakings. To a considerable degree, apocalyptic White émigré conceptions of the “Jewish Bolshevik” menace found their expression in heinous National Socialist deeds.

	When given the opportunity under the cover of World War II, the National Socialist regime sought to destroy European Jewry, and it came dangerously close to succeeding. The most striking feature of the Final Solution proved its rationalized irrationality. Great numbers of Germans and their auxiliaries from Eastern and Western Europe devoted large amounts of scarce resources to slaughtering millions of Jews at the same time that a total war was raging which was to end either in glorious victory or abject defeat. National Socialists placed a high priority on exterminating Jews when military interests dictated using as many of them as possible for slave labor. This skewed policy indicated the considerable degree to which Hitler had internalized the apocalyptic White émigré standpoint that the Jews threatened to ruin Germany and the rest of the world as they had Russia.


http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2013/07/09/ex-soviet-bloc-spy-chief-explains-hidden-origin-todays-jihad.html
	Thus, the Romanian DIE (counterpart of KGB foreign intelligence), which I headed, in 1972 received from the KGB an Arabic translation of the old Russian forgery, “The Protocols of the Elders of Zion.” We also received "documentary" material in Arabic produced by the Soviet disinformation "proving" America was a Zionist country whose aim was to transform the Islamic world into a Jewish fief. 

	My DIE was ordered to disseminate these documents within its targeted Islamic countries. During my later years in Romania, the DIE disseminated thousands of copies of “The Protocols” and similar “documents” each month.


http://euromaidanpress.com/2016/08/11/moscow-tv-revives-infamous-anti-semitic-forgery-protocols-of-the-elders-of-zion-euromaidan-press/
	Moscow TV revives infamous anti-Semitic forgery ‘Protocols of the Elders of Zion’


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...infowars.com ... intellihub.com ... wakeupthesheep.com ... educate-yourself.org ... dailystormer.com ... stormfront.org...


http://planet.infowars.com/video/the-protocols-of-the-learned-elders-of-zion
	The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion is a document which should be read by all. No other single document provides us with such a clear understanding of why the world is gradually moving towards a One World Government, controlled by an irreproachable hidden hand.


https://www.intellihub.com/censorship-around-world-still-high-levels/
	Of course, control of the media is a central component in any would-be tyrant’s agenda; it is no surprise that such a scheme has been outlined in key conspiracy documents such as the The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion


http://wakeupthesheep.com/?p=626
	Here is a summary of Zionist doctrine from a book entitled:

	“The Protocols of the Learned Elders of ZION”


http://educate-yourself.org/cn/protocolsaffirmed17sep14.shtml
	Authenticity of Protocols of Zion Affirmed

	A little-known 1938 booklet rejected the 1935 decision of a Berne Court (overturned on appeal) that the Protocols of Zion were a forgery. It foresaw that World War Two was an Illuminati (Masonic) Jewish trap. 


https://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Astormfront.org+%22protocols+of+the+elders+of+zion%22+OR+%22protocols+of+the+learned+elders+of+zion%22


https://www.dailystormer.com/jew-york-times-puts-out-new-article-proclaiming-the-protocols-of-the-learned-elders-of-zion-to-be-faked/
	Jew York Times Puts Out New Article Proclaiming The “Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion” to be Faked

	The Jew-run New York Times put out a new article proclaiming that the “Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion” is a fake. They’ve actually been doing this over the past 100 years to discredit the information contained in the text. This article is just the latest example of them doing this.


http://www.dailystormer.com/is-putin-one-of-us/
	Is Putin One of Us?


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alfred_Rosenberg
	He was sentenced to death and executed with other condemned co-defendants at Nuremberg on the morning of 16 October 1946. ...Rosenberg was the only condemned man who, when asked at the gallows if he had any last statement to make, replied with only one word: "No"
