https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/12/world/middleeast/trump-syria-russia.html
	WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Wednesday that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia is partly to blame for the crisis in Syria and bears responsibility to help bring peace to the war-torn country, comments meant to increase pressure on the Kremlin as his secretary of state was in Moscow for a tense round of talks.

	“I really think there’s going to be a lot of pressure on Russia to make sure that peace happens, because frankly, if Russia didn’t go in and back this animal, we wouldn’t have a problem right now,” Mr. Trump said, referring to Mr. Putin’s support for President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.

	“Putin is backing a person that’s truly an evil person, and I think it’s very bad for Russia, I think it’s very bad for mankind, it’s very bad for this world,” Mr. Trump added during an interview with Fox Business that aired Wednesday morning.

	His comments came as Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson was in Moscow for meetings with Russian leaders. Mr. Trump said his primary message to Russia was: “You should have peace in Syria; it’s enough.”


...


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/books-and-monographs/okhrana-the-paris-operations-of-the-russian-imperial-police/5474-1.html
	Harting's case officer was Pyotr Rachkovsky, probably the ablest head of the Okhrana's Foreign Bureau. Rachkovsky was a pioneer. He refined the art of what we today call active measures or perceptions management techniques. He paid subsidies to journalists willing to write articles favorable to Russian interests, and he purchased or subsidized such periodicals as Revue Russe and Le Courier Franco-Russe. During his tenure (1884-1902), journalists on the Okhrana payroll began planting articles in the French press that were favorable to Russian interests. Rachkovsky also created the Ligue pour le Salut de la Patrie Russe, which promoted positive views toward Russia among French citizens; this group was a forerunner of Soviet front organizations and "friendship societies."

	...Rachkovsky was a model for subsequent Soviet practice in another regard. He was an advocate of Franco-Russian rapprochement and served as the tsar's personal emissary in secret negotiations leading to the Dual Alliance of 1891-94 and its modification in 1899.


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/books-and-monographs/okhrana-the-paris-operations-of-the-russian-imperial-police/5474-1.html
	Although the Okhrana was not as ruthless as the Cheka or the NKVD, in an ironic way it inspired them. Lenin and Stalin seemed to have concluded from their underground years that the tsarist police were too lenient. After all, for all its success until 1914, the Okhrana had not been able to prevent a small group of radicals from seizing power three years later.

	...Lenin and the Bolsheviks also studied the Okhrana, and so did KGB recruits decades later, to learn from and improve on the tsarist police's repressive methods.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyotr_Rachkovsky
	Rachkovsky may have also played a role in amplifying the carnage of World War I: "Rachkovsky’s bosses in Russia and his hosts in Paris both feared the radicals, allowing the Russian agent to tighten the ties between the two nations. He succeeded so well that [historian Alex] Butterworth argues he was partly to blame for the Russo-French alliance that helped make World War I such a bloody mess."


...


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/books-and-monographs/okhrana-the-paris-operations-of-the-russian-imperial-police/5474-1.html
	According to one authority, Rachkovsky was a "born intriguer" who "delighted" in forging documents. He allegedly was among those responsible for the anti-Semitic Protocols of the Elders of Zion, perhaps the most infamous political forgery of the 20th century. Rachkovsky's tactic of exploiting anti-Semitism for political purposes was used repeatedly during the Soviet era--for example, in Hungary in 1956, in Czechoslovakia in 1968, and in Poland in the 1980s. Such scapegoating also was evident in the so-called "Doctors Plot" in the early 1950s, when a group of Jewish doctors was accused of plotting to kill Stalin and other Soviet leaders.


http://listverse.com/2015/08/29/10-dastardly-secret-operations-of-the-kgb/
	Racial tensions were high in the US during the 1960s. Race riots surrounding the Civil Rights Movement were causing mass unrest across the country. The KGB thought that they could exploit this and make it worse by inducing animosity or outright violence between racial groups in the US.

	The plan, called Operation PANDORA, began with the KGB spreading fake pamphlets that appeared to be from the Jewish Defense League, a right-wing Jewish political organization now classified by the FBI as a terrorist organization. The pamphlets, which were actually penned by the KGB, claimed that black Americans were attacking Jews and looting Jewish-owned shops in New York. The fake pamphlets implored their readers to fight against “black mongrels.” The KGB then sent these anti-black flyers to black militant groups, hoping it would stir anti-Semitism in the black organizations, if not outright violence.

	Concurrently, the KGB was also sending fake letters to black militant groups which claimed that the Jewish Defense League had been targeting and attacking blacks in America. The letters implored the black militants to attack the Jewish Defense League in retaliation. The Jewish Defense League’s leader, Meir Kahane, was assassinated a year later, though the act was carried out by an Arabic man who was seemingly unconnected to any black militant groups.

	As part of their operation to stir racial unrest, the KGB also planned to blow up a black college. After the college was bombed with a planted explosive device, the KGB planned to make anonymous calls to a series of black organizations and claim that the Jewish Defense league had been behind the bombing.


http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2013/07/09/ex-soviet-bloc-spy-chief-explains-hidden-origin-todays-jihad.html
	Thus, the Romanian DIE (counterpart of KGB foreign intelligence), which I headed, in 1972 received from the KGB an Arabic translation of the old Russian forgery, “The Protocols of the Elders of Zion.” We also received "documentary" material in Arabic produced by the Soviet disinformation "proving" America was a Zionist country whose aim was to transform the Islamic world into a Jewish fief. 

	My DIE was ordered to disseminate these documents within its targeted Islamic countries. During my later years in Romania, the DIE disseminated thousands of copies of “The Protocols” and similar “documents” each month.

	The fruit of the KGB’s disinformation campaign was seen on Sept. 11, 2001. The weapon of choice for that horrific act was a hijacked airplane – a concept invented and perfected by Andropov's disinformation machinery.


http://listverse.com/2015/08/29/10-dastardly-secret-operations-of-the-kgb/
	After Yasir Arafat rose to power at the head of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), he established an alliance with the KGB. The KGB then began to provide secret training to the PLO’s militants, who were taking up arms to violently achieve Palestinian statehood. In addition to training, the KGB began to ship arms to the PLO guerrillas in spite of the embargo placed upon the Palestinian territories.

	Around this time, the PLO was carrying out many acts of terrorism. In 1969 alone, they performed 82 airline hijackings around the world. The head of foreign intelligence for the KGB, Aleksandr Sakharovsky, claimed that “airplane hijacking is my own invention.”

	The KGB also financed another Palestinian militant group, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PLPF), supplying them with rocket launders and machine guns. A leader of the PLPF, Wadie Haddad, was revealed to be a KGB agent. While Haddad was in charge of the PLPF, he carried out multiple hijackings of civilian airplanes. One of those hijackings, the Dawson’s Field Hijackings of 1970, provoked what’s known as Black September in Jordan, a bloody civil war that lasted from September 1970 until July 1971. 


...


https://www.ushmm.org/wlc/en/article.php?ModuleId=10007058
	Nazi party ideologue Alfred Rosenberg introduced Hitler to the Protocols during the early 1920s, as Hitler was developing his worldview. Hitler referred to the Protocols in some of his early political speeches, and, throughout his career, he exploited the myth that "Jewish-Bolshevists" were conspiring to control the world.

	During the 1920s and 1930s, The Protocols of the Elders of Zion played an important part in the Nazis' propaganda arsenal. The Nazi party published at least 23 editions of the Protocols between 1919 and 1939. Following the Nazis' seizure of power in 1933, some schools used the Protocols to indoctrinate students. 


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alfred_Rosenberg#Nazi_policy_and_Rosenberg.27s_views
	Hitler was a leader oriented towards practical politics, whereas, for Rosenberg, religion and philosophy were key and culturally he was the most influential within the party. Several accounts of the time before the Nazi ascension to power, indeed, speak of Hitler as being a mouthpiece for Rosenberg's views, and he clearly exerted a great deal of intellectual influence.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aufbau_Vereinigung
	The Aufbau Vereinigung (Reconstruction Organisation) was a Munich-based counterrevolutionary conspiratorial group formed in the aftermath of the German occupation of the Ukraine in 1918 and of the Latvian Intervention of 1919. It brought together White Russian émigrés and early German National Socialists who aimed to overthrow the governments of Germany and the Soviet Union, replacing them with authoritarian régimes of the far right. The group was originally known as Die Bruecke (The Bridge). Aufbau was also the name of a periodical it brought out.

	According to Michael Kellogg, the Aufbau Vereinigung was a vital influence on the development of Nazi ideology in the years before the Beer Hall Putsch of 1923 as well as financing NSDAP with, for example, funds from Henry Ford. It gave Hitler the idea of a vast Jewish conspiracy, involving a close alliance between international finance and Bolshevism and threatening disaster for mankind. Recent research on Hitler's early years in Vienna (1905-1913) appears to have shown that his antisemitism was at that time far less developed than it became under the new influences.

	Aufbau members became involved in terrorist activities, including the assassination of Walther Rathenau and that of Vladimir Dmitrievich Nabokov (both in 1922).

	After the death of Scheubner-Richter in the putsch, Aufbau rapidly declined, and notions of Lebensraum and Slavic inferiority, naturally unpopular with the Russians, gained a stronger hold on the Nazi movement.

	The long-term influence of Aufbau has been traced in the implementation of the final solution and in Hitler's disastrous decision to divert troops away from Moscow towards the Ukraine in 1941.

	Prominent members of Aufbau included:

    	- Max Erwin von Scheubner-Richter (a Baltic German from the Russian Empire)
    	- Alfred Rosenberg (a Baltic German from the Russian Empire)
	...


http://wunc.org/post/former-spymaster-three-decades-cia
	"But even on into the 20th century, in the 1930s and 1940s when the Soviets basically riddle the FDR administration and the Manhattan Project with - now they're estimating - about 500 spies."


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/vol47no1/article02.html
	Certain that he had the correct line on Stalin, FDR desired to meet him, turn his famous charisma on him, and decide world affairs with him on a personal basis. As early as March 1942, he wrote British Prime Minister Winston Churchill:

		I think I can personally handle Stalin better than either your Foreign Office or my State Department. Stalin hates the guts of all your top people. He thinks he likes me better, and I hope he will continue to do so.

	Guided by this conviction, FDR steered a straight-line policy on “Russia,” as he unfailingly and mistakenly called the Soviet Union: unswerving conciliation of Stalin, capped off with a face-to-face meeting.

	To advance this policy, he relied heavily on Davies. In March 1943, when the Ambassador to the USSR at the time, Adm. William H. Standley, complained in Moscow that the Soviet authorities had concealed the extent of American Lend-Lease aid from the Soviet people, FDR feared that Stalin would take offense. Chastising Standley, he informed him that his sole purpose in Moscow was “full and friendly cooperation” with the Soviet Union.


https://www.britannica.com/event/Yalta-Conference
	After the agreements reached at Yalta were made public in 1946, they were harshly criticized in the United States. This was because, as events turned out, Stalin failed to keep his promise that free elections would be held in Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania, and Bulgaria. Instead, communist governments were established in all those countries, noncommunist political parties were suppressed, and genuinely democratic elections were never held. At the time of the Yalta Conference, both Roosevelt and Churchill had trusted Stalin and believed that he would keep his word. Neither leader had suspected that Stalin intended that all the popular front governments in Europe would be taken over by communists.


...


https://pastebin.com/zjHbRS7C
	Angleton, according to one acquaintance, expressed suspicions about “whether the K.G.B. had its arm on Kissinger.”


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/12/trump-kissinger-russia-putin-232925
	As Putin climbed the ranks in the Kremlin, eventually becoming the autocratic president he is today, he and Kissinger kept up a warm rapport even as the United States and Russia grew further apart.


https://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/09/books/in-world-order-henry-kissinger-sums-up-his-philosophy.html
	This book is less concerned than Mr. Kissinger’s earlier ones — including “Diplomacy” (1994), which this volume draws upon heavily at times — with spinning or with rationalizing his own policy-making record as national security adviser and secretary of state under President Richard M. Nixon. Still, there are troubling passages: the handful of pages dealing with Vietnam, for instance, will remind many readers of Mr. Kissinger’s disingenuousness on that subject. Once again, he sidesteps questions about decisions that he and Mr. Nixon made that prolonged and expanded the war, as well as their devastating consequences.


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/31/opinion/sunday/nixons-vietnam-treachery.html
	Nixon had entered the fall campaign with a lead over Humphrey, but the gap was closing that October. Henry A. Kissinger, then an outside Republican adviser, had called, alerting Nixon that a deal was in the works: If Johnson would halt all bombing of North Vietnam, the Soviets pledged to have Hanoi engage in constructive talks to end a war that had already claimed 30,000 American lives.

	But Nixon had a pipeline to Saigon, where the South Vietnamese president, Nguyen Van Thieu, feared that Johnson would sell him out. If Thieu would stall the talks, Nixon could portray Johnson’s actions as a cheap political trick.


http://nsarchive.gwu.edu/NSAEBB/NSAEBB263/
	Washington, D.C., December 23, 2008 - Amidst a massive bombing campaign over North Vietnam, Henry Kissinger and Richard Nixon candidly shared their evident satisfaction at the “shock treatment” of American B 52s, according to a declassified transcript of their telephone conversation published for the first time today by the National Security Archive. “They dropped a million pounds of bombs,” Kissinger briefed Nixon. “A million pounds of bombs,” Nixon exclaimed. “Goddamn, that must have been a good strike.” The conversation, secretly recorded by both Kissinger and Nixon without the other’s knowledge, reveals that the President and his national security advisor shared a belief in 1972 that the war could still be won.  “That shock treatment [is] cracking them,” Nixon declared. “I tell you the thing to do is pour it in there every place we can…just bomb the hell out of them.” Kissinger optimistically predicted that, if the South Vietnamese government didn’t collapse, the U.S. would eventually prevail: “I mean if as a country we keep our nerves, we are going to make it.”

	...Repeatedly, the national security adviser used his skills in flattery and connivance to help build up the president’s image and stay in his good graces. During the Jordan crisis in September 1970, Kissinger told the media that he had awakened the President to brief him on King Hussein’s military actions against Palestinian guerillas.  But a transcript of his call to the President the next day recorded him as informing Nixon: “in light of the fact that there was nothing you could do, we thought it best not to waken you.”

	The telcons also illustrate other Kissinger’s efforts to spin the media, monitor and control the process of decision-making, disparage rivals, keep important associates, such as his patron Nelson Rockefeller, in the loop, and win over critics


http://www.latimes.com/la-oe-kissinger31may31-story.html
	The lessons of Vietnam
	By Henry A. Kissinger

	...It must begin with dispelling the myth that the Nixon administration settled in 1972 for terms that had been available in 1969 and therefore prolonged the war needlessly.


...


https://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/09/books/in-world-order-henry-kissinger-sums-up-his-philosophy.html
	Mr. Kissinger also plays down his role as an informal, outside adviser to the George W. Bush White House. (In his 2006 book, “State of Denial,” Bob Woodward wrote that Mr. Kissinger had “a powerful, largely invisible influence” on that administration’s foreign policy, and met regularly with Vice President Dick Cheney.) In a 2005 essay, Mr. Kissinger wrote that “victory over the insurgency is the only meaningful exit strategy” for the United States in Iraq; in this book, he writes that seeking to implement American values “by military occupation in a part of the world where they had no historical roots” proved “beyond what the American public would support and what Iraqi society could accommodate.”


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Kissinger#Iraq


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2004/mar/23/usa.september111
	JB: Condoleezza Rice argued today that when President Bush was asking you to find evidence linking September 11 to Iraq, he was simply showing due diligence, asking you to explore the options.

	RC: That's very funny. There are two ways of asking. There's: 'check every possibility - don't assume its al-Qaida look at everybody'. That's due diligence. Then there's the: 'I want you to find every shred of evidence that it was Iraq and Saddam' - and said in a very emphatic and intimidating way, and the other people who were with me got the same impression as I did. This was not due diligence. This was: 'come back with a memo that says it was an Iraqi attack'. 


http://www.politico.eu/article/attacks-will-be-spectacular-cia-war-on-terror-bush-bin-laden/
	“The information that we had compiled was absolutely compelling. It was multiple-sourced. And it was sort of the last straw.” Black and his deputy rushed to the director’s office to brief Tenet. All agreed an urgent meeting at the White House was needed. Tenet picked up the white phone to Bush’s National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice. “I said, ‘Condi, I have to come see you,’” Tenet remembers. “It was one of the rare times in my seven years as director where I said, ‘I have to come see you. We’re comin’ right now. We have to get there.’”

	Tenet vividly recalls the White House meeting with Rice and her team. (George W. Bush was on a trip to Boston.) “Rich [Blee] started by saying, ‘There will be significant terrorist attacks against the United States in the coming weeks or months. The attacks will be spectacular. They may be multiple. Al Qaeda’s intention is the destruction of the United States.’” [Condi said:] ‘What do you think we need to do?’ Black responded by slamming his fist on the table, and saying, ‘We need to go on a wartime footing now!’”

	“What happened?” I ask Cofer Black. “Yeah. What did happen?” he replies. “To me it remains incomprehensible still. I mean, how is it that you could warn senior people so many times and nothing actually happened? It’s kind of like The Twilight Zone.” Remarkably, in her memoir, Condi Rice writes of the July 10 warnings: “My recollection of the meeting is not very crisp because we were discussing the threat every day.”


http://www.sfgate.com/books/article/Foreign-policy-and-its-offenders-Richard-Clarke-2764396.php
	For within five hours of al Qaeda's attack, as CBS News reported two years ago, Rumsfeld was demanding "the best info fast. Judge whether good enough to hit S.H. [Saddam Hussein]" Then he added: "Go massive. ... Sweep it all up. Things related and not." Worse, the very next morning, Clarke "walked into a series of discussions about Iraq." "Then I realized with almost a sharp physical pain that Rumsfeld and Wolfowitz were going to take advantage of this national tragedy to promote their agenda about Iraq."

	President Bush joined the chorus that evening, telling Clarke to look for evidence to "see if Saddam did this." Moreover, after hearing "Mr. President, al Qaeda did this," and "we have looked several times for state sponsorship of al Qaeda and not found any real linkages to Iraq," Bush "testily" urged Clarke to "Look into Iraq, Saddam." Three days later, on Sept. 15, according to Woodward's book, Rice suggested launching an attack elsewhere, as an "insurance policy" to "maintain domestic and international support" just "in case things in Afghanistan went bad." That "perked up" Wolfowitz, who suggested: "Iraq was a brittle, oppressive regime that might break easily."


http://www.newsweek.com/iraq-war-bushs-biggest-blunder-294411
	In March of 2002, Bush informally told a group of senators: “We’re taking him [Saddam] out.” That same month, Cheney told Senate Republicans that “the question was no longer if the U.S. would attack Iraq, the only question was when.” By late July 2002, the British chief of intelligence returned from Washington concluding that military action against Saddam now seemed inevitable.

	National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice “brushed back” State Department concerns about invasion, saying that “the president had made up his mind.”

	...Rice was Bush’s closest confidant. Her primary interest was protecting the President and translating his wishes into policy. But she did not develop the decision-making process needed to analyze and debate the wisdom and implications of going to war.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Condoleezza_Rice#Iraq
	Rice was a proponent of the 2003 invasion of Iraq. After Iraq delivered its declaration of weapons of mass destruction to the United Nations on December 8, 2002, Rice wrote an editorial for The New York Times entitled "Why We Know Iraq Is Lying". In a January 10, 2003, interview with CNN's Wolf Blitzer, Rice made headlines by stating regarding Iraqi president Saddam Hussein's nuclear capabilities: "The problem here is that there will always be some uncertainty about how quickly he can acquire nuclear weapons. But we don't want the smoking gun to be a mushroom cloud."

	...After the invasion, when it became clear that Iraq did not have nuclear WMD capability, critics called Rice's claims a "hoax", "deception" and "demagogic scare tactic". Dana Milbank and Mike Allen wrote in The Washington Post: "Either she missed or overlooked numerous warnings from intelligence agencies seeking to put caveats on claims about Iraq's nuclear weapons program, or she made public claims that she knew to be false".


http://insider.foxnews.com/2016/12/12/peters-blasts-tillerson-pick-cant-do-business-russia-without-getting-dirty
	Dec 12, 2016

	Fox News strategic analyst Lt. Col. Ralph Peters (Ret.) said this morning that President-elect Donald Trump could be getting "suckered" by Russia.

	Trump's selection for secretary of state, Exxon Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson, is being criticized for his business ties to Moscow, which awarded him the Order of Friendship decoration in 2012.


http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2016/12/13/why-rex-tillerson-would-be-disaster-as-secretary-state.html
	Why Rex Tillerson would be a disaster as Secretary of State

	Published December 13, 2016

	...Tillerson has direct economic interests in Russia having cut multi-billion dollar deals with Putin himself as well as Kremlin confidant Igor Sechin, the head of Russian state-owned oil company Rosneft. When Sechin isn’t palling around with Tillerson, he keeps busy selling nuclear capabilities to Venezuela or negotiating oil deals with Cuba. Tillerson doesn’t seem to mind, and even appeared with Sechin after he had been formally sanctioned by the United States.


http://www.politico.com/blogs/donald-trump-administration/2016/12/bob-gates-praises-tillerson-for-secretary-of-state-232555
	12/13/16

	Bob Gates and Condoleezza Rice are backing ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson for secretary of state. The pair, who command bipartisan respect in foreign policy circles, issued separate statements of support soon after President-elect Donald Trump announced his pick.

	"He would bring to the position vast knowledge, experience and success in dealing with dozens of governments and leaders in every corner of the world,” Gates said in a statement. "He is a person of great integrity whose only goal in office would be to protect and advance the interests of the United States.”


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/12/rex-tillerson-supporters-russia-exxon-ties-232524
	“It's going to be very hard for Marco Rubio, who came out against him, and very hard for John McCain and very hard for Lindsey Graham to paint Rex Tillerson as some sort of Putin stooge when you have Condi Rice and James Baker and possibly even Bob Gates saying we know this guy,” Joe Scarborough said Monday on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.”


http://video.foxnews.com/v/5266527791001/?#sp=show-clips
	Obama ruining Trump's chance of better relations with Putin?

	Dec. 30, 2016 - 6:07 - Former CIA Director James Woolsey weighs in on 'Tucker Carlson Tonight'


http://www.uawire.org/news/condoleezza-rice-called-on-ukrainians-to-wait-until-the-russian-economy-collapses
	Condoleezza Rice tells Ukraine to wait until the sanctions affect the Russian economy

	...“I believe that we should help Ukraine to protect itself. I believe that people should have the ability to protect themselves with the help of small arms. However, the American Government didn’t choose this path and I understand it,” Rice said in her interview with ICTV. According to her, the Minsk Agreements are constantly violated by Russia but sanctions and low oil prices will have their effect.

	“It is obvious that the Minsk Agreements are constantly violated but we should be patient and continue to stand our ground. Sanctions and low oil prices will cause serious damage to Russia’s economy,” the former United States Secretary of State convinced.


http://www.russialist.org/archives/7062-6.php
	Question: How do you perceive Russia - as part of old Europe or new Europe?

	Condoleezza Rice: First and foremost, it is a part of Europe.

	I'm convinced that the American-Russian relationship is a 21st century relationship. These are relations based on awareness of real threats to the world and stability, based on seeing terrorism as the worst threat to all of us.


https://2001-2009.state.gov/secretary/rm/2008/09/109954.htm
	Secretary Rice Addresses U.S.-Russia Relations At The German Marshall Fund

	Our world today is full of historic opportunities for progress, as well as challenges to it – from terrorism and proliferation, to climate change and rising commodity prices. The United States has an interest in building partnerships to resolve these and other challenges. And so does Russia.

	The United States and Russia share an interest in fighting terrorism and violent extremism. We and Russia share an interest in denuclearizing the Korean peninsula and stopping Iran’s rulers from acquiring the world’s deadliest weapons. We and Russia share an interest in a secure Middle East where there is peace between Israelis and Palestinians. And we and Russia share an interest in preventing the Security Council from reverting to the gridlocked institution that it was during the Cold War. 


http://dailysignal.com/2015/07/24/why-are-russian-hackers-posing-as-isis-propagandists/
	Why Are Russian Hackers Posing as ISIS Propagandists?


http://www.cbsnews.com/news/iran-ballistic-missile-test-nuclear-deal-security-council-russia/
	Iran’s foreign minister has refused to confirm that the country conducted a missile test, saying Iran’s missile program is not part of a 2015 nuclear deal between his country and world powers.

	...Russia, which helped reach the nuclear deal agreed with Iran, said Monday that -- if Tehran had conducted a missile test -- it would not violate the nuclear deal.

	“Such actions, if they took place, do not breach the resolution,” deputy foreign minister Sergey Ryabkov told Interfax news agency, according to the French news agency AFP.


http://euromaidanpress.com/2016/08/11/moscow-tv-revives-infamous-anti-semitic-forgery-protocols-of-the-elders-of-zion-euromaidan-press/
	Moscow TV revives infamous anti-Semitic forgery ‘Protocols of the Elders of Zion’


http://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/russia-blocks-u-n-security-council-condemnation-syria-attack-n745746
	Russia Blocks U.N. Security Council Condemnation of Syria Attack


...


http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/film/putins-way/transcript/
	...The Russian officials said that there was a Chechen trail in the apartment bombings— not proof of Chechen involvement, a Chechen trail. It wasn’t clear what that meant, but it was used in order to justify a new invasion of Chechnya.

	...He quickly became the most popular politician in Russia, even though before the apartment bombings, he was believed to have had no chance to succeed Yeltsin as president.

	...And it worked. Three months into a new millennium, Russia had a new president. He seemed a modern man, a man for the future, a future all Russians hoped would be better than the past.

	But 15 years later, shadows from the past haunt this place. It’s a memorial to those who died in those apartment bombings. Since that day, books, newspaper reports and documentaries have all raised disturbing questions about what really happened here, who was really responsible.

	Among the questioners, Mikhail Trepashkin, who spent two years trying to investigate the crime on behalf of one of the families. A former KGB officer himself, and a lawyer, Trepashkin was always dubious about the official story, the Chechen connection. His doubts only grew when his former colleagues in the security services reacted to his investigation.

	MIKHAIL TREPASHKIN, Former KGB/FSB Officer:
	[through interpreter] They were telling me, “Don’t dig into it. Otherwise, you will get imprisoned yourself.” And then specifically, they were telling me in a straightforward way, “Just leave it if you don’t want to have trouble.” And I was saying that, “Well, I’m the former investigator and I have experience and I can help. I can run my own investigation.”

	...The Russian government destroyed all the evidence in the case of the earlier bombings. No sooner had the bombings taken place than bulldozers showed up to— to remove the rubble, including human remains. And in that case, they destroyed the crime scene.

	...A fifth bomb was discovered in the basement of an apartment building in Ryazan by watchful inhabitants of that building. And that bomb was defused. And the people who had placed that bomb in the basement turned out to be not Chechnyan terrorists. They turned out to be agents of the FSB, the Russian security service.


...


http://www.nybooks.com/daily/2014/03/01/ukraine-haze-propaganda/
	On February 20, an EU delegation was supposed to arrive to negotiate a truce. Instead, the regime orchestrated a bloodbath. The riot police fell back from some of the Maidan. When protesters followed, they were shot by snipers who had taken up positions on rooftops. Again and again people ran out to try to rescue the wounded, and again and again they were shot.


https://www.unian.info/politics/1441868-ukraine-intel-reveals-names-of-20-russian-snipers-deployed-in-donbas.html
	The Ukrainian military intelligence has identified Russian servicemen from a snipers platoon of the 5th Separate Motorized Rifle Brigade (No. 08805, located in Makiivka) of the 1st Army Corps (Donetsk) of the Center of Territorial Troops (Russia’s Novocherkassk) of the Southern Military District (Russia’s Rostov-on-Don) of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, which have been carrying out criminal orders of the Russian leadership in Donbas.

	The Russian snipers operate in the vicinity of Mariinka, Slvanoye, Berezove, Novotroitske, Novohnativka, and Yasne (Donetsk region), according to the report by the Main Intelligence Department of Ukraine’s Defense Ministry. The snipers target both civilians and the Ukrainian military. They are also involved in conducting provocative fire in the direction of patrols of the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission.


http://www.zeit.de/politik/ausland/2016-09/russia-propaganda-eastern-ukraine-separatists-e-mails
	The evidence of the extent to which Russia is engaging in psychological warfare against the West is now available in black and white. ZDF’s Frontal21and DIE ZEIT gained access to more than 10,000 emails from the "Information Ministry" of the pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine. The leaders of the "People’s Republics" of Donetsk and Luhansk, which are not recognized internationally, want to join the Russian Federation. So far, the Russian president has consistently denied that the rebels have taken their orders from Moscow. But the email leak from the ministry in Donetsk reveals actual command structures between Russian advisers and the rebels. 


...


https://www.theguardian.com/global-development/2017/feb/17/msf-inquiry-indicates-russia-was-behind-hospital-bombing-in-syria-medecins-sans-frontieres
	MSF inquiry indicates Russia was behind hospital bombing in Syria


http://abcnews.go.com/International/report-suggests-russia-conceal-airstrikes-syrian-hospitals/story?id=45458752
	Report suggests Russia tried to conceal airstrikes on Syrian hospitals 


http://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/15/world/middleeast/syria-talks.html
	U.S. and Russia Reach Deal to Destroy Syria’s Chemical Arms


https://www.apnews.com/19772be1238e49fbb62c509a5b659b3d
	Official: Russia knew Syrian chemical attack was coming

	...The official said that a drone operated by Russians was flying over a hospital as victims of the attack were rushing to get treatment. Hours after the drone left, a Russian-made fighter jet bombed the hospital in what American officials believe was an attempt to cover up the usage of chemical weapons.


https://origin-www.bloombergview.com/articles/2016-03-24/how-russia-is-weaponizing-migration-to-destabilize-europe
	How Russia Is 'Weaponizing' Migration to Destabilize Europe

	...Russia’s campaign of airstrikes in Syria, which has largely targeted civilian areas, also adds to the waves of Muslim migrants entering Europe through Greece. General Philip Breedlove, NATO's supreme allied commander in Europe, said earlier this month that Russia was “weaponizing migration,” as a means to “overwhelm European structures and break European resolve.”


...


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_War_II_casualties#Holocaust_deaths
	The Holocaust is the term generally used to describe the genocide of approximately six million European Jews during World War II. Martin Gilbert estimates 5.7 million (78%) of the 7.3 million Jews in German occupied Europe were Holocaust victims. Estimates of Holocaust deaths range between 4.9 and 5.9 million Jews.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_September#Casualties
	Estimates of the number of the people killed in the ten days of Black September range from three thousand to more than five thousand, although exact numbers are unknown. The Palestinian death toll in 11 days of fighting was estimated by Jordan at 3,400, while Palestinian sources often cite the number 5,000, mainly civilians, killed. Arafat at some point claimed that 10,000 had been killed.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vietnam_War_casualties#Total_number_of_deaths
	Guenter Lewy in 1978 estimated 1,353,000 total deaths in North and South Vietnam during the period 1965–1974 in which the U.S. was most engaged in the war.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Casualties_of_the_Iraq_War
	Various scientific surveys of Iraqi deaths resulting from the first four years of the Iraq War estimated that over one million Iraqis died as a result of conflict during this time. A later study, published in 2011, estimated that approximately 500,000 Iraqis had died as a result of the conflict since the invasion. Counts of deaths reported in newspapers collated by projects like the Iraq Body Count project found 174,000 Iraqis reported killed between 2003 and 2013, with between 112,000-123,000 of those killed being civilian noncombatants.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Casualties_of_the_Second_Chechen_War
	Estimates of casualties in the Second Chechen War vary wildly, from 25,000 to 200,000 civilian dead plus 8,000 to 40,000 Russian military.


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-35990401
	War in eastern Ukraine is now routine for the people still living there, and there is little cause for optimism, despite a ceasefire and a strong desire for peace.

	Outbreaks of fighting between pro-Russian rebels and the Ukrainian army frequently violate the 	truce and lives are still being lost, two years after the conflict broke out.

	The front line is just 800m from the school at Oleksandrivka, a village controlled by the pro-Russian self-proclaimed "Donetsk People's Republic" (DNR).

	Its soldiers are in trenches close-by, and not visible. On the school's main door is a chilling reminder of daily reality: a piece of white paper that reads: "Weapons banned inside."

	Head teacher Valentina Cherkas's booming voice offers a reassuring welcome to the children as they arrive.

	Outside, by the playground, are blue flak-jacketed ceasefire monitors from the Organization for Co-operation and Security in Europe (OSCE).

	"Madness" is the one word Valentina uses to sum up the war. 

	...Yilena, 25, is visiting her family in Donetsk and is representative of a huge number of largely younger people who have left this territory.

	"There is no future here and no prospects," she says.


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VcagOJIOtWQ
	 Syria Chemical Attack 


...


https://www.dni.gov/files/documents/ICA_2017_01.pdf
	In trying to influence the US election, we assess the Kremlin sought to advance its longstanding desire to undermine the US-led liberal democratic order, the promotion of which Putin and other senior Russian leaders view as a threat to Russia and Putin’s regime.


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/know-russian-meddling-putins-playbook/
	JOHN SIPHER, Former CIA Officer: Oh, absolutely.

	Russians have been doing this for decades, if not hundreds of years. This is what they do.


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/vol47no1/article02.html
	Closed borders, internal passports, censored presses, political purges, and forced-labor camps—all of these features of the Soviet system were common knowledge in the 1930s and 1940s, as even Mission to Moscow acknowledged, but FDR, like Davies, brushed them aside. He wanted no criticisms from Bullitt, Standley, or anyone worried about the Soviet massacre of Polish officers in Katyn Forest, for example. To keep the war effort united and to work for postwar democracy, he wanted to please Iosif (“Joseph”) Stalin, whom he liked to call “Uncle Joe.”


http://www.american.edu/jfk/?about
	On the morning of June 10, 1963, President John F. Kennedy arrived on the campus of American University set to deliver a commencement speech that would change the course of history. From the podium emblazoned with the presidential seal, Kennedy put forth "A Strategy of Peace," a rallying cry for an end to the nuclear arms race with the Soviets and a beginning of a new era of peace with all nations.


http://spartacus-educational.com/SSgolitsin.htm
	In January 1964, Yuri Nosenko defected. He claimed that he had been put in charge of the KGB investigation into Lee Harvey Oswald. He denied the Oswald had any connection with KGB. After interviewing Oswald it was decided that he was not intelligent enough to work as a KGB agent. They were also concerned that he was "too mentally unstable" to be of any use to them. Nosenko added that the KGB had never questioned Oswald about information he had acquired while a member of the U.S. Marines. This surprised the CIA as Oswald had worked as a Aviation Electronics Operator at the Atsugi Air Base in Japan.

	Members of the Warren Commission were pleased to hear this information as it helped to confirm the idea that Oswald had acted alone and was not part of a Soviet conspiracy to kill John F. Kennedy. CIA chief of intelligence, James Jesus Angleton, did not believe parts of Nosenko's story. He was supported by Golitsyn. He had worked in some of the same departments as Nosenko but had never met him. After being interviewed for several days Nosenko admitted that some aspects of his story were not true. For example, Nosenko had previously said he was a lieutenant colonel in the KGB. He confessed that he had exaggerated his rank to make himself attractive to the CIA. However, initially he had provided KGB documents that said Nosenko was a lieutenant colonel.

	Richard Helms, the CIA's Deputy Director of Plans, was not convinced that Yuri Nosenko was telling the truth: "Since Nosenko was in the agency's hands this became one of the most difficult issues to face that the agency had ever faced. Here a President of the United States had been murdered and a man had come from the Soviet Union, an acknowledged Soviet intelligence officer, and said his service had never been in touch with Oswald and knew nothing about him. This strained credulity at the time. It strains it to this day."

	Evan Thomas, the author of The Very Best Men (1995), points out that James Jesus Angleton also did not believe Nosenko. "Angleton never got over suspecting that the Russians or Cubans plotted to kill Kennedy. He thought that the Russians or Cubans plotted to kill Kennedy. He thought the Russian defector, Yuri Nosenko, who claimed that the Kremlin was innocent, was a KGB plant to throw the CIA off the trail. But most reputable students of the Kennedy assassination have concluded that Khrushchev and Castro did not kill Kennedy, if only because neither man wanted to start World War III."


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slovenia_Summit_2001
	At the closing press conference, in response to a question about whether he could trust Putin, Bush said, "I looked the man in the eye. I found him very straightforward and trustworthy – I was able to get a sense of his soul."


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/transcript-president-obama-gives-speech-addressing-europe-russia-on-march-26/2014/03/26/07ae80ae-b503-11e3-b899-20667de76985_story.html
	President Obama gives speech addressing Europe, Russia
	March 26, 2014

	But with time, so long as we remain united, the Russian people will recognize that they cannot achieve the security, prosperity and the status that they seek through brute force.

	And that’s why throughout this crisis we will combine our substantial pressure on Russia with an open door for diplomacy.

	I believe that for both Ukraine and Russia, a stable peace will come through de-escalation, a direct dialogue between Russia and the government of Ukraine and the international community


http://money.cnn.com/2014/07/17/technology/security/nasdaq-hack/
	July 17, 2014

	Russian hackers managed to slip a "digital bomb" into the Nasdaq -- one with the potential to sabotage the stock market's computers and wreak havoc on the U.S. economy.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/three-white-house-officials-tied-to-files-shared-with-house-intelligence-chairman/2017/03/30/de4b8c30-1589-11e7-9e4f-09aa75d3ec57_story.html
	As a former staff member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and a former Defense official involved with Russian affairs, she said she “got worried” that the Obama White House was not briefing Congress on what it knew. “I know how the Russians operate,” she said, and called former colleagues to make sure Congress was being informed.


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/814919370711461890
	Great move on delay (by V. Putin) - I always knew he was very smart!


...


http://time.com/3275385/henry-kissinger/
	Kissinger became an exemplar of the realist, as opposed to idealist, school of diplomacy, someone who believed that a foreign policy that is overly guided by moral impulses and crusading ideals was likely to be dangerous. “The most fundamental problem of politics,” he wrote in his dissertation, “is not the control of wickedness but the limitation of righteousness.”


https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Henry_Kissinger
	[My country] has no permanent friends or enemies, only interests.


http://www.rferl.org/a/russis-not-so-splendid-isolation/27400469.html
	Once upon a time, the story of Fortress Russia facing a hostile world was a convenient fairy tale the Kremlin used to mobilize the public.

	Today, the fairy tale is quickly becoming a reality. As a result of the Kremlin's actions in Ukraine and Syria, this well-worn narrative of an isolated Russia staring down the world has come to life.


https://archive.org/details/Yuri-Bezmenov_Love-Letter-to-America
	The main principle of ideological subversion is turning a stronger force against itself. Just like in the Japanese martial arts: you do not stop the blow of a heavier more powerful enemy with an equally forceful blow. You may simply hurt your hand. Instead you catch the striking fist with your hand and PULL the enemy in the direction of his blow until he crashes into a wall or any other heavy object in his way.


http://lybio.net/vladimir-putin-warning-full-speech-2016/people/
	This is the only food for thought, don’t let me come off like I am accusing you of something. But International Relations is much like mathematics – there is nothing personal about it.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alfred_Rosenberg
	He was sentenced to death and executed with other condemned co-defendants at Nuremberg on the morning of 16 October 1946. ...Rosenberg was the only condemned man who, when asked at the gallows if he had any last statement to make, replied with only one word: "No"
