https://cepa.ecms.pl/files/?id_plik=2715
    Russia’s use of information as a weapon is not new, but the sophistication and intensity are increasing. Belatedly, the West has begun to realize that disinformation poses a serious threat to the United States and its European allies, primarily the “frontline states”—Poland, the Baltic states, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Ukraine—but also to Western Europe and North America. Across the Western world, the Kremlin promotes conspiratorial discourse and uses disinformation to pollute the information space, increase polarization and undermine democratic debate. Russia’s actions accelerate the declining confidence in international alliances and organizations, public institutions and mainstream media.

    ...

    If there is one common thread in the Kremlin’s many narratives it is the use of conspiratorial discourse and a strategic use of disinformation to trash the information space, break trust, increase polarization and undermine the public space for democratic debate: This is a war on information rather than an “information war.” In this regard the Kremlin is going with the flow of changes in Western media, politics and society, where there is less trust in public institutions and mainstream media, where previously fringe movements are gaining strength and the space for a public discourse is shrinking.


http://faculty.wcas.northwestern.edu/~jnd260/pub/Druckman%20Peterson%20Slothuus%20APSR%202013.pdf
    Competition is a defining element of democracy. One of the most noteworthy events over the last quarter-century in U.S. politics is the change in the nature of elite party competition: The parties have become increasingly polarized. Scholars and pundits actively debate how these elite patterns influence polarization among the public (e.g., have citizens also become more ideologically polarized?). Yet, few have addressed what we see as perhaps more fundamental questions: Has elite polarization altered the way citizens arrive at their policy opinions in the first place and, if so, in what ways? We address these questions with a theory and two survey experiments (on the issues of drilling and immigration). We find stark evidence that polarized environments fundamentally change how citizens make decisions. Specifically, polarization intensifies the impact of party endorsements on opinions, decreases the impact of substantive information and, perhaps ironically, stimulates greater confidence in those—less substantively grounded—opinions. We discuss the implications for public opinion formation and the nature of democratic competition.


http://web02.gonzaga.edu/comltheses/proquestftp/Thornal_gonzaga_0736M_10483.pdf
    The increasing levels of political polarization in America have communication scholars, political scientists, and media pundits alike examining the causes of this trend, many of whom look to blame the proliferation of partisan media for this societal ill. An abundance of research exists on the effects of selective exposure to partisan media and the rise of political polarization in America today;thus, this thesis explores how partisan selective exposure and political polarization are related through a modified qualitative meta-analysis of existing research on these two topics. The social identity (Tajfel & Turner, 1986) and social comparison (Festinger, 1954) theories provide the theoretical framework for this study. Central to the relationship are four main themes:
 
        1. Evidence suggests that partisan selective exposure contributes to political polarization;
 
        2. American political elites are polarized;
 
        3. Most Americans are tuned to something other than the news and thus, are not politically polarized by partisan media;
 
        4. Politically engaged partisans, those who occupy the fringes of the American electorate and yet, wield immense political influence, are the most polarized by selective exposure to partisan media.
 
    The findings of this meta-analysis suggest that increased polarization of politically engaged partisans due to these factors has serious implications for our nation’s democratic processes. Further research is needed to explore the effects of a tuned out American electorate and how to re-engage them in a national political conversation.


http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/09/how-politics-breaks-our-brains-and-how-we-can-put-them-back-together/453315/
    But even giving Democrats that information did not increase the accuracy of their responses. Ramirez's study asked some participants the following question: "The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics shows unemployment has increased by 4.6 percent since 2008. Would you say that the level of unemployment in this country has gotten better, stayed the same, or gotten worse since Barack Obama was elected President?"

    Clearly, the answer is in the sentence that immediately precedes the question. But the mention of Obama launched a partisan mental process that led many astray: Nearly 60 percent of Democrats said unemployment had lessened since Obama's election.


https://books.google.com/books?id=h3By77UU4nIC&pg=PA151&lpg=PA151&dq="Divide+and+rule+is+one+obvious+ploy,+but+it+has+many+local+variants
    "Active measures" (aktivnye meropriiatia) against any opposition or would-be opposition are a key part of the new governing formula. Over and above the use of black PR and kompromat (see pages 70-1), or the cruder types of administrative resource (legal deregistration, etc.), active measures proper involve the deployment of virtual objects or events created or staged by political technologists to weaken the oppostion. This chapter defines the various types of project that have been developed in the former USSR, and in the course of so doing introduces the reader to some particularly strange local terminology.
 
    Divide and rule is one obvious ploy, but it has many local variants–as is indicated by the sheer number of specialist terms used in the post Soviet states. Sometimes the divisions are large, sometimes small. Parties may be split down the middle, or plagued by tiny rivals, evocatively named "flies" (mukhi). Rival parties may appear from within, as "off-cuts" (otkoly), or from without, the most common being artificial "spoiler parties" (partii-spoiler), or candidates deliberately created to poach the electorates of potentially threatening oppositions. A special type of artificial rival is the "double" (dvoinik, dubler8, or *dubl-obekt) or "clone." Potential splitters may lie dormant as "cuckoos" (kukeshki), "moles" (kroti), or as a "Trojan Horse" (troianskii kon). Splits may be generated before an election or after, if an actual opposition proves too successful. The most ambitious projects produce total displacement or substitution of unwanted oppositions (pochkovanie, the germination of an alternative, followed by zamershchenie, substitution for the original): the artificial party surpasses its original rival, which is then left to wither on the vine. Finally, political technologists can seek to alter the entire dynamic of the political system to work against the opposition, most often via artificial polarisation or so-called "strategies of tension".


https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Washington%27s_Farewell_Address
    To the efficacy and permanency of your Union, a Government for the whole is indispensable. No alliances, however strict, between the parts can be an adequate substitute; they must inevitably experience the infractions and interruptions, which all alliances in all times have experienced. Sensible of this momentous truth, you have improved upon your first essay, by the adoption of a Constitution of Government better calculated than your former for an intimate Union, and for the efficacious management of your common concerns. This Government, the offspring of our own choice, uninfluenced and unawed, adopted upon full investigation and mature deliberation, completely free in its principles, in the distribution of its powers, uniting security with energy, and containing within itself a provision for its own amendment, has a just claim to your confidence and your support. Respect for its authority, compliance with its laws, acquiescence in its measures, are duties enjoined by the fundamental maxims of true Liberty. The basis of our political systems is the right of the people to make and to alter their Constitutions of Government. But the Constitution which at any time exists, till changed by an explicit and authentic act of the whole people, is sacredly obligatory upon all. The very idea of the power and the right of the people to establish Government presupposes the duty of every individual to obey the established Government.

    All obstructions to the execution of the Laws, all combinations and associations, under whatever plausible character, with the real design to direct, control, counteract, or awe the regular deliberation and action of the constituted authorities, are destructive of this fundamental principle, and of fatal tendency. They serve to organize faction, to give it an artificial and extraordinary force; to put, in the place of the delegated will of the nation, the will of a party, often a small but artful and enterprising minority of the community; and, according to the alternate triumphs of different parties, to make the public administration the mirror of the ill-concerted and incongruous projects of faction, rather than the organ of consistent and wholesome plans digested by common counsels, and modified by mutual interests.


------


https://pcl.stanford.edu/research/2012/iyengar-poq-affect-not-ideology.pdf
	Using data from a variety of sources, we demonstrate that both republicans and democrats increasingly dislike, even loathe, their opponents. We also find that partisan affect is inconsistently (and perhaps arti-factually) founded in policy attitudes. The more plausible account lies in the nature of political campaigns; exposure to messages attacking the out-group reinforces partisans’ biased views of their opponents.

	...Policy-based division is but one way of defining partisan polarization. An alternative, and in our view, more diagnostic, indicator of mass polarization is the extent to which partisans view each other as a disliked out-group. The definitional test of social identity (tajfel 1970; tajfel and turner 1979) requires not only positive sentiment for one’s own group, but also negative sentiment toward those identifying with opposing groups. So, to the extent that party identification represents a meaningful group affiliation, the more appropriate test of polarization is affective, not ideological, identity.

	Affect based on partisan identity may reflect some combination of ideological disagreements and group-centric impulses. Partisans may attribute the more extreme policy positions of party elites and activists to party supporters, producing “principled” dislike. We present evidence that partisan affect is inconsistently related to policy preferences and that the relationship between partisan affect and policy attitudes hasn’t notably strengthened over time. The more plausible explanation, in our view, is that the mere act of identifying with a political party is sufficient to trigger negative evaluations of the opposition, and exposure to prolonged media-based campaigns only reinforces these predispositions. We present evidence showing that partisans’ feelings for their opponents become more negative following exposure to presidential campaigns.

	Our principal goal is to document the extent of affective polarization. We show that democrats and republicans not only increasingly dislike the opposing party, but also impute negative traits to the rank-and-file of the out-party. We further demonstrate that affective polarization has permeated judgments about interpersonal relations, exceeds polarization based on other prominent social cleavages, and that levels of partisan affect are significantly higher in America, compared to the united kingdom. Finally, we present evidence suggesting that exposure to political campaigns is a potential contributory factor. Overall, the evidence is unequivocal: in terms of affect, Americans are polarized along party lines.

pg 4
	By any relevant measure—length of time, amount of campaign finance, scope and reach of television ads, volume of news media coverage—American presidential campaigns have since become more antagonistic and harder to ignore.

	...On Fox news and, more recently, MSnBc, partisans encounter news and commentary on the campaign that only confirms their stereotypes of the out-group. Access to campaigns was enhanced further in the post-internet era with news reports playing on lap-top computers and cell phones on a daily basis. thus, greater exposure to the harsh rhetoric of political campaigns is one potential explanation of affective polarization.


pg 11

	As shown in figure 3, race and religion are weaker forms of identity than partisanship


amazing

pg 16

	Between 1960 and 2008, stereotyping of partisan supporters and opponents increased exponentially. Among the Americans, in-party bias—the tendency to view one’s party more favorably than the opposition—climbed from 0.47 to 2.86!

damn

eventually that becomes a civil war...no other way for it to go


pg 17

	In summary, our three indicators of affective polarization all demonstrate that partisans in America are increasingly divided. The sense of partisan identity is increasingly associated with a Manichean, “us against them” view of the political world. Democrats and republicans harbor generally negative feelings toward their opponents. Stereotypes of party supporters have become increasingly differentiated; positive traits accrue to members of the in-party, while negative traits are ascribed to opponents. There is sufficient animosity to make partisan affiliation relevant to inter-personal relations. Today, American partisans are highly polarized in their feelings about each other.


pg 20

	In sum, the evidence presented above—the non-effects of sorting on the level of affective polarization, and the moderate to weak effects of policy preferences on net partisan affect—is at odds with the view that partisan affect is driven primarily by ideological affinity. Instead, the data suggest that the two indicators tap distinct forms of polarization.

right, they hate each other because they're Democrats or Republicans, not because of ideological differences

	...For parties to be seen in ideological terms would require an awareness of their policy stances, yet most Americans have difficulty correctly locating parties on issue scales

brutal

pg 21

	We acknowledge that the effect size associated with exposure to negative ads is modest. This is only to be expected, since advertising contributes only a small share of the total information stream in presidential campaigns and voters are more likely to encounter campaign messages through news coverage

pg 23

	Overall, our analyses suggest that greater levels of negativity in advertising campaigns and general exposure to political campaigns both contribute to higher levels of affective polarization. Campaigns reinforce voters’ sense of partisan identity and confirm stereotypical beliefs about supporters and opponents 


 
basically sum of the paper looks like is that partisans don't really disagree on issues so much as they just hate each other, hold each other together by hating each other

sounds right

authors blame the media too, which is interesting

blames "advertisters" it seems like?


I think authors disgregard ideology a little too much?

I mean basically right

but ideology of the "extremes" or activists is important, since those are the examples the media picks to impugn negative stereotypes on the rest of the party
