I think the USIC was trying to expose the scope and nature of Russia's intelligence activities during the Obama Administration:


https://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2009/07/17/declassified-documents-reveal-kgb-spies-in-the-us
    July 17, 2009

    But newly released documents from U.S. and Soviet archives show that hundreds of people, from the famous to the obscure, crossed paths with Soviet intelligence during the pre-World War II years. They include the country's most famous physicist, Robert Oppenheimer, novelist Ernest Hemingway, and civil servants like Hiss. There were journalists, too, like Walter Lippmann, I. F. Stone, and Bernard Redmont, a former correspondent for U.S. News who has been denying spying allegations for more than a half century.

https://newrepublic.com/article/63602/now-we-know
    June 17, 2009

    But amusing though the details may be, the most significant contribution of Klehr's and Haynes's book is its revelation of the sheer extent of Soviet espionage in America, and the numbers of people involved in it. Despite the length of this hefty volume, Haynes and Klehr discuss only a portion of some five hundred agents who at some point worked for the KGB, and about whom some details can be found in Vassiliev's notes or in the Venona files. Not all of these people were actually passing on information. Some worked as handlers, couriers, recruiters and talent spotters. The role of others may well have been exaggerated, as critics have pointed out, by the eager workers of the KGB--though certainly not all of them, given the specific details of information handed over.

    If only a quarter of the people whose names appear in the files were truly agents, the numbers are still much larger than anyone previously suspected, and they represent a far deeper penetration into American society than we have hitherto known. As it turns out, the KGB in the 1930s had agents or contacts in the State Department, the Commerce Department, the Justice Department, and the OSS, the wartime intelligence agency. KGB associates were scattered throughout the Manhattan Project as well as in research institutions and private companies specializing in chemistry, aviation engineering, and physics. There were agents in the media and the literary world. The KGB even tried, not very successfully, to recruit Ernest Hemingway.

http://wunc.org/post/former-spymaster-three-decades-cia
    Jul 1, 2013

    A central theme in his books is that spies have often been successful in the U.S. because Americans are consistently loath to believe their countrymen would betray them. "You certainly see in the first hundred years or so [of American history], they are totally blind to this," Sulick told host Frank Stasio on The State of Things. "But even on into the 20th century, in the 1930s and 1940s when the Soviets basically riddle the FDR administration and the Manhattan Project with - now they're estimating - about 500 spies."

https://www.fbi.gov/news/stories/operation-ghost-stories-inside-the-russian-spy-case
    October 31, 2011

    The arrests of 10 Russian spies last year provided a chilling reminder that espionage on U.S. soil did not disappear when the Cold War ended. The highly publicized case also offered a rare glimpse into the sensitive world of counterintelligence and the FBI’s efforts to safeguard the nation from those who would steal our vital secrets.

    Our case against the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) operatives—dubbed Operation Ghost Stories—went on for more than a decade. Today we are releasing dozens of still images, surveillance video clips, and documents related to the investigation as part of a Freedom of Information Act request.

    Although the SVR “illegals,” as they were called, never got their hands on any classified documents, their intent from the start was serious, well-funded by the SVR, and far-ranging.

    “The Russian government spent significant funds and many years training and deploying these operatives,” said one of our counterintelligence agents who worked on the case. “No government does that without expecting a return on its investment.”

    Our agents and analysts watched the deep-cover operatives as they established themselves in the U.S. (some by using stolen identities) and went about leading seemingly normal lives—getting married, buying homes, raising children, and assimilating into American society.

    Using surveillance and sophisticated techniques, aided by support from intelligence analysts, investigators gathered information to understand the threat posed by the spies as well as their methods, or tradecraft.

    The deep-cover Russian spies may not have achieved their objective, but they were not idle. They collected information and transmitted it back to Russia, and they were actively engaged in what is known in the spy business as “spotting and assessing.”

    They identified colleagues, friends, and others who might be vulnerable targets, and it is possible they were seeking to co-opt people they encountered in the academic environment who might one day hold positions of power and influence.

    Perhaps the most famous example of this tactic—the Cambridge Five—took place in Great Britain. Soviet intelligence “talent spotters” were able to recruit Cambridge University students in the 1930s—including future spy Kim Philby—who would later rise to power in the British government and become Soviet operatives during World War II and into the 1950s.

    “We believe the SVR illegals may well have hoped to do the same thing here,” said a counterintelligence agent.

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/fbi-breaks-up-a-russian-spy-ring-in-new-york-city/2015/01/26/d3f8cee8-a595-11e4-a2b2-776095f393b2_story.html
    January 26, 2015

    Evgeny Buryakov claimed he worked for a Russian-owned bank in Manhattan as its deputy representative and his LinkedIn page said he belonged to several online groups that suggested a background in finance.

    But that was just a cover story to hide his true affiliation when he arrived in the United States in 2010. The FBI said Monday that Buryakov was an agent under nonofficial cover, collecting economic information for the SVR, Russia’s foreign intelligence service.

    He was arrested and charged with conspiracy to act and acting as an unregistered agent of a foreign government. Two other SVR agents, posing as official Russian representatives in New York, were forced to leave the country, their roles in the spy ring exposed in a detailed criminal complaint filed against Buryakov.

http://www.nytimes.com/books/first/a/andrew-sword.html
    THE MITROKHIN ARCHIVE

    ...The facts, however, are far more sensational even than the story dismissed as impossible by the SVR. The KGB defector had brought with him to Britain details not of a few hundred but of thousands of Soviet agents and intelligence officers in all parts of the globe, some of them "illegals" living under deep cover abroad, disguised as foreign citizens.

http://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/sdut-soviet-defectors-trove-of-kgb-secrets-made-public-2014jul06-story.html
    July 6 2014

    CAMBRIDGE, England (AP) — The papers spent years hidden in a milk churn beneath a Russian dacha and read like an encyclopedia of Cold War espionage.

    Original documents from one of the biggest intelligence leaks in history — a who's who of Soviet spying — were released Monday after being held in secret for two decades.

    The files smuggled out of Russia in 1992 by senior KGB official Vasili Mitrokhin describe sabotage plots, booby-trapped weapons caches and armies of agents under cover in the West — the real-life inspiration for the fictional Soviet moles in "The Americans" TV series.

http://entertainment.time.com/2013/01/30/qa-the-cia-officer-behind-the-new-spy-drama-the-americans/
    Jan. 30, 2013

    Joseph Weisberg wanted to be a spy ever since he read John le Carré’s spy novel The Spy Who Came in from The Cold when he was 11. He became a die-hard “cold-warrior,” taking Soviet history classes at Yale University and then went on to work for the CIA between 1990 and 1994.

    ...in 2010, after an FBI investigation revealed 10 Russian spies had been living undercover in suburbs nationwide for more than a decade, Weisberg leapt at the opportunity to write a TV series based on the scandal. The deep cover operation seemed closer to the spy novel escapades that inspired him to pursue espionage in the first place. Weisberg, author of two novels An Ordinary Spy (2008) and 10th Grade (2002), wrote a script for The Americans based on his conversations with former colleagues and research from Vasili Mitrokhin’s esteemed notes on the KGB’s Cold War activities.

    ...That was absolutely the inspiration for the series. Those spies are called “illegals,” a type of spy that is somewhat unique to Russia’s intelligence service. They were the spies living among us. Some pulled off some real espionage of note, but more often, they would come over, open a business, and try to get a cover going. Then the business would fail, the spies would start telling some lies back home, and then they would sort of disappear. That’s who was arrested in 2010, and Philip and Elizabeth are the 1981 version of those espionage officers.

    But a modern day [setting] didn’t seem like a good idea. People were both shocked and simultaneously shrugged at the [2010] scandal because it didn’t seem like we were really enemies with Russia anymore. An obvious way to remedy that for television was to stick it back in the Cold War.

https://intelnews.org/2015/07/03/01-1728/
    July 3, 2015

    A set of declassified intelligence documents from the 1950s and 1960s offer a glimpse into the secret war fought in Canada between American and Soviet spy agencies at the height of the Cold War. The documents were authored by the United States Central Intelligence Agency and declassified following a Freedom of Information Act request filed on behalf of the Canadian newspaper The Toronto Star. According to the paper, they show that Toronto was a major hub of a prolonged espionage conflict fought between the CIA and the Soviet KGB.

    ...Others, like a naturalized Canadian identified in the documents as Ivan Kolaska, were believed by the CIA to have immigrated to Toronto as part of a broader KGB effort to infiltrate the ranks of the anti-communist Eastern European expatriate community in Canada. Some of these infiltrators were able to settle in Canada, marry locals, get jobs and have families, while living a double life. The Star spoke to one Ukrainian immigrant to Canada whose name features in the declassified CIA files. Natalie Bundza, now 78, worked as a travel agent in 1950s’ Toronto and regularly led tourist groups to communist countries. She was a Ukrainian nationalist and anticommunist, but the CIA believed she was pretending to have these beliefs in order to infiltrate the Ukrainian expatriate community in Toronto.

http://www.businessinsider.com/here-was-the-fbis-secret-plan-in-case-nuclear-war-broke-out-2015-1
    Jan. 30, 2015

    The United States government made extreme, top-secret plans for preserving national security in the event of a nuclear attack during the Cold War, according to documents recently released to transparency journalism organization MuckRock.

    The FBI created "Plan C" in 1956, the same year the Red Army shut down the Hungarian Revolution, and if activated, Plan C would have put the nation under martial law and allowed for nearly 13,000 people to be detained for having links to "subversive organizations."

https://d3gn0r3afghep.cloudfront.net/foia_files/1240819-0_-_066-HQ-19017_-_Section_01.PDF
    Emergency Detention Program - The Federal Bureau of Investigation schedules for apprehension individuals whose affiliations with subversive organizations are so pronounced that their continued liberty in the event of a national emergency would present a serious threat to the internal security of the country. As of April 17, 1956, 12,949 individuals were scheduled for apprehension in an emergency.

https://www.intelligence.senate.gov/sites/default/files/documents/ICA_2017_01.pdf
    6 January 2017

    During the Cold War, the Soviet Union used intelligence officers, influence agents, forgeries, and press placements to disparage candidates perceived as hostile to the Kremlin, according to a former KGB archivist.

    Since the Cold War, Russian intelligence efforts related to US elections have primarily focused on foreign intelligence collection. For decades, Russian and Soviet intelligence services have sought to collect insider information from US political parties that could help Russian leaders understand a new US administration’s plans and priorities.

    The Russian Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) Directorate S (Illegals) officers arrested in the United States in 2010 reported to Moscow about the 2008 election.

https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/31/opinion/sunday/nixons-vietnam-treachery.html
    DEC. 31, 2016

    A newfound cache of notes left by H. R. Haldeman, his closest aide, shows that Nixon directed his campaign’s efforts to scuttle the peace talks, which he feared could give his opponent, Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, an edge in the 1968 election. On Oct. 22, 1968, he ordered Haldeman to “monkey wrench” the initiative.

    ...Nixon had entered the fall campaign with a lead over Humphrey, but the gap was closing that October. Henry A. Kissinger, then an outside Republican adviser, had called, alerting Nixon that a deal was in the works: If Johnson would halt all bombing of North Vietnam, the Soviets pledged to have Hanoi engage in constructive talks to end a war that had already claimed 30,000 American lives.

    But Nixon had a pipeline to Saigon, where the South Vietnamese president, Nguyen Van Thieu, feared that Johnson would sell him out. If Thieu would stall the talks, Nixon could portray Johnson’s actions as a cheap political trick.

http://www.business-standard.com/article/politics/soviet-gave-money-to-40-congress-mps-in-indira-gandhi-era-cia-report-117013000796_1.html
    January 30, 2017

    The Soviets pumped huge amounts of cash to influence Indian politicians, including a large number of Congress MPs during former prime minister Indira Gandhi's government, to influence Indian policies, according to a now declassified December 1985 CIA report.

    This continued into the Rajiv Gandhi rule, although he tried to reduce the influence of Moscow on India, says the report.

    The confidential 24-page memo, redacted heavily with lots of pages removed, also notes that the Soviets funded opposition parties including the Communist Party of India (CPI) and the CPI-Marxist "through a combination of kickback schemes, normal business transactions and direct cash payments".

    "In addition to party funding, the Soviets channel money to individual Congress and opposition politicians (through) clandestine payments. This cash is reportedly obtained from the favourable Soviet trade balance," said the document titled "The Soviets in India", which is one of the millions of CIA memos declassified recently.

    "As many as 40 per cent Congress MPs in (Indira) Gandhi's last government had received Soviet political contributions," the report reads.


The Mitrokhin Archives, Vassiliev Papers, "Plan C," and other significant documents on the KGB's activities were all declassified or made public during the Obama Administration, as well the continued existence of the illegals program. These documents say the Russians had large operations with historical success in infiltrating our government and governments around the world.

Some recent news reports also reveal what Russia and their illegals are up to:


https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10000872396390444097904577537044185191340
http://web.archive.org/web/20170317024622/http://www.justicefornorthcaucasus.com/jfnc_message_boards/analysis_opinion.php?entry_id=1343340602&title=russian-spy-ring-aimed-to-make-children-agents
    A Russian spy ring busted in the U.S. two years ago planned to recruit members’ children to become agents, and one had already agreed to his parents’ request, according to current and former U.S. officials.

    When the suspects were arrested in 2010 with much fanfare, official accounts suggested they were largely ineffectual. New details about their time in the U.S., however, suggest their work was more sophisticated and sometimes more successful than previously known.

    ...The effort to bring children into the family business suggests the ring was thinking long term: Children born or reared in America were potentially more valuable espionage assets than their parents because when they grew up they would be more likely to pass a U.S. government background check.

    ...His parents revealed their double life to him well before their arrest, according to current and former officials, whose knowledge of the discussion was based on surveillance by the Federal Bureau of Investigation that included bugging suspects’ homes. The officials said the parents also told their son they wanted him to follow in their footsteps.

    He agreed, said the officials. At the end of the discussion with his parents, according to one person familiar with the surveillance, the young man stood up and saluted “Mother Russia.” He also agreed to travel to Russia to begin formal espionage training, officials said.

    ...Based on their extensive surveillance of the secret agents and their messages to handlers back in Moscow, U.S. counterintelligence officials believe the grooming of Mr. Foley was part of a long-term goal for some of the group’s children to become spies when they got older.

https://intelnews.org/2010/06/29/02-339/
    The aim of the alleged spy ring is said to have been to supply Moscow with intelligence on US defense policy, specifically nuclear weapons, as well as various Congressional activities. It appears that most of the alleged spy ring’s contacts were in the Washington, DC beltway, and included members of nongovernmental organizations, pressure groups, think tanks, and lobbyists. It is worth noting that the ten Russian NOCs have not been charged with espionage, but rather with “conspiring to act as unauthorized foreign agents” and “conspiracy to commit money laundering”.

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/fbi-sheds-new-light-on-russian-spy-ring/
    While the deep cover agents didn't steal any secrets, an FBI counterintelligence official told The Associated Press they were making progress.

    They "were getting very close to penetrating U.S. policymaking circles" through a friend of an unnamed member of President Obama's Cabinet, FBI assistant director for counterintelligence C. Frank Figliuzzi told The Associated Press.

    He did not give details, but Russian spy Cynthia Murphy of Montclair, N.J. provided financial planning for a venture capitalist with close ties to Bill and Hillary Clinton.

http://bigstory.ap.org/article/5a189a45ebaf4c86a330eb87d88beadd/long-new-hacks-us-worried-russian-spying-efforts
http://fortune.com/2017/03/17/the-americans-russian-spies/
    Though allegations of meddling in the political process represent a stunning new flare-up in relations between the two countries, U.S. intelligence agencies for years have been concerned by Russian efforts to infiltrate American society and government.

    ..."What we have seen as far as the arrests is really only scratching the surface of the real Russian activity here," said Scott Stewart, vice president of tactical analysis at the Texas-based Stratfor intelligence firm.

    But a few sensational Justice Department prosecutions in the last decade have pulled back the curtain on Russian efforts to recruit university students, gather information on the stock market and on sanctions, sway public opinion and cultivate well-placed contacts. And recent hacking allegations make clear that old-fashioned spying techniques have now been augmented by cyber expertise that can in some cases accomplish similar goals.

    ...More recently, Buryakov was sentenced to two and a half years in prison for his spying efforts, which in addition to working to gain information about the New York Stock Exchange, also included an attempt to shape political opinion.

    He admitted to working to sway union opinion about a Canadian company's planned deal to build aircraft in Russia — efforts known among experts as "active measures." That political engagement in some ways resembles what U.S. officials say was a Russian effort to use an email hack to politically harm Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.

http://articles.latimes.com/2011/oct/31/nation/la-na-russian-spies-20111101
    The agents, whom the U.S. sent to Russia in July 2010 in the largest spy swap since the Cold War, are not accused of stealing any U.S. secrets. But they were more dangerous than commonly believed, C. Frank Figliuzzi, FBI assistant director for counterintelligence, said in an interview.

    They were "the cream of the crop" of trained Russian intelligence agents, he said, and they were sent here to blend in and befriend American policymakers. They were succeeding, Figliuzzi said.

    "Several were getting close to high-ranking officials," he said. One had gone to work for a confidant of a U.S. Cabinet member, he added, declining to offer details.

http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/russian-spies-eye-golden-prize-white-house-source/story?id=45531117
    “They always targeted political figures,” David Major, a retired FBI counterintelligence agent explained to ABC News. “They want to know who is a mover and shaker in our society, who affects it.”

    And today as questions continue to mount over what contacts Trump campaign aides may have had with Russian intelligence operatives, the White House continues to dispute media reports that any of the president’s associates had such contact while on the campaign trail.

    U.S. intelligence officials say the Russians are engaged in a massive campaign to infiltrate and disrupt American politics. It has gone on for decades, originally with the Cold War goal of placing a mole inside the White House, a retired KGB officer who once ran spy operations in Washington told ABC News.


These reports say that Russia has a massive and successful campaign to infiltrate, influence, and disrupt U.S. politics and the U.S. public, including getting close to U.S. policymakers.

It looks like Russia has had major success in these kinds of efforts before. For instance, estimates say FDR's Administration was infiltrated by about 500 Russian spies, including Harry Hopkins, one of FDR's closest advisors. Hopkins played a significant role in the expansion of the Soviet Union:


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venona_project#Bearing_of_Venona_on_particular_cases

https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/vol47no1/article02.html

http://www.historynet.com/harry-hopkins-president-franklin-d-roosevelts-deputy-president.htm


And some of the words and actions by former chief of CIA Counterintelligence James Angleton and KGB defector Anatoliy Golitsyn hint that Russian influence operations might have lead to crucial strategic victories over U.S. intelligence:


http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2016/02/27/my-lunch-with-the-spider-who-nearly-wrecked-the-cia.html
    President Richard Nixon appointed Colby Director of Central Intelligence in 1973. In 1974, to end “the great mole hunt,” Colby fired Angleton before, he, too, left the agency in 1976.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Jesus_Angleton
    Angleton's resignation was announced on Christmas Eve of 1974, just as President Ford demanded that Colby report on the allegations and as various Congressional committees announced that they would launch their own inquiries. Angleton told reporters from United Press International that he was quitting after 31 years because "my usefulness has ended" and the CIA was getting involved in "police state activities." Three of Angleton's senior aides in counter-intelligence—his deputy Raymond Rocca, executive officer of the counter-intelligence division William J. Hood, and Angleton's chief of operations Newton S. Miller—were coaxed into retirement within a week of Angleton's resignation after it was made clear that they would be transferred elsewhere in the agency rather than promoted, and the counter-intelligence staff was reduced from 300 to 80 people.

    ...Rumors swirled around Washington thereafter that Colby was himself the KGB mole but these were never conclusively attributed to Angleton. Angleton was awarded the Distinguished Intelligence Medal, the CIA's second highest honor, in 1975.

    Some within CIA considered Golitsyn discredited, even before Angleton's ousting but the two did not appear to have lost their faith in one another. They sought the assistance of William F. Buckley, Jr. (himself once a CIA man) in authoring New Lies for Old, which advanced the argument that the USSR planned to fake its collapse to lull its enemies into a false sense of victory. Buckley refused but later went on to write a novel about Angleton, Spytime: The Undoing of James Jesus Angleton. In his book Wedge - The Secret War between the FBI and CIA (Knopf, 1994), Mark Riebling stated that of 194 predictions made in New Lies For Old, 139 had been fulfilled by 1993, 9 seemed 'clearly wrong', and the other 46 were 'not soon falsifiable'.

https://archive.org/details/GolitsynAnatoleTheNewLiesForOldOnes
    The West recognizes the communist military threat but misinterprets the political threat. With the best of intentions, United States policy has labored hard to bring about a liberalization in the USSR and Eastern Europe with its human rights policy and encouragement for the internal dissident movement; but it has failed to realize that the dissident movement has been shaped and controlled by the party apparatus and the KGB, and that a sham "liberalization" may well be the next major step in the disinformation program.

    Pursuit of a realistic foreign policy by the United States has been made even more difficult by the demoralization of their intelligence and counterintelligence services that followed the Watergate exposures and the overblown campaign to restrict the functions of the CIA and FBI. The CIA's capacity for political action was curtailed and two thousand experienced officers were retired. Particular damage was done to US counterintelligence, whose task it should be to analyze communist policy and tactics, forecast communist intentions, and so help to protect the nation and its intelligence services from communist penetration, subversion, agents of influence, and disinformation.

http://www.nytimes.com/1985/06/16/us/us-frustrated-in-efforts-to-counter-soviet-spying.html
    While the Government has debated the number of counterintelligence agents it needs, the Soviet Union has improved and expanded its intelligence operations here, senior officials said.

    Over the last decade, intelligence officials said, Moscow has more than doubled the number of intelligence officers assigned to the United States while at the same time broadening their operations to focus on American technology and military industries.

    In the past Soviet officers worked chiefly in only four or five major cities, including New York, Washington and San Francisco. But Mr. O'Malley said they now operate nationwide.

    In addition, past and present intelligence officials say the quality of K.G.B. agents has significantly improved since the days when American officers said they could easily spot them by their baggy pants and awkward English.

    ...The last group consists of undercover Soviet officers who enter the country illegally, take up residence as American citizens and try to blend into American society.

    These "illegals,"" report directly to Moscow, intelligence officials say, and try to find jobs that give them access to sensitive information. The most famous of these was Col. Rudolf Abel, a Soviet officer who ran a successful spy network in the 1950's.

    Admiral Turner, the former C.I.A. Director, said, "I suspect there are a sizable number of illegals in the United States," although intelligence officials say no one knows for sure.

    For several years the Congressional intelligence committees have been struggling to increase the number of F.B.I. agents assigned to the counterintelligence office.

    "For the last three or four years, our intelligence committee has increased the F.C.I. manpower above what the Administration asked for,'' said Senator Leahy, the committee's vice chairman, referring to the foreign counterintelligence office. Still, he added, "There are nowhere near enough agents."

http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2016/02/27/my-lunch-with-the-spider-who-nearly-wrecked-the-cia.html
    Five or six years later, after a stint in Central America covering the CIA’s wars, and then on assignment in the Middle East, where I began to explore that region’s vast universe of untrue facts, I was much more familiar with the kinds of people and the ways of thinking that Angleton represented.

    They were a dying breed, in fact, and their greatest skill, the collection and analysis of “human intelligence” was a dying art. The big money—the almost unfathomably huge money—spent by the American intelligence community went on satellites and electronic snooping of various descriptions. Serious intelligence gathering was supposed to come through technical means. The “people” part of the CIA was withering away, except, perhaps, for covert ops of the kind Colby had favored. As his son told a conference at the Wilson Center in Washington in 2012, “My father’s favorite expression was, ‘March towards the sound of the guns.’ Get into the action. If there’s a battle going on, go to it.”

http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/03/cia-art-spying-espionage-spies-military-terrorism-214875
    How the CIA Forgot the Art of Spying

    ...Over the past 15 years, this “global war on terror” mindset has become the default at the CIA. After accusations that it was stuck in the Cold War, the agency began to trade concealment devices and human sources for military hardware. Under a directive from President George W. Bush, it expanded its ranks to fight terror. It bulked up its abilities to track and target a dispersed enemy fighting an asymmetrical war. Gone were the days, it seemed, of risky brush passes in a heart-pounding, adrenaline-filled four-second period when an officer was “black”—meaning free, just for a moment, from hostile surveillance and able to pass a message to an asset. The Cold War was over; we had a new enemy to defeat.

    But here’s the unfortunate irony of that transformation: Our Cold War adversaries hadn’t actually gone away. While American attention was turned elsewhere, Russia had quietly continued applying its formidable knowledge of traditional spy tradecraft.

    ...There was a perceptible change in the culture inside the agency, too. Espionage is traditionally a nebulous practice that creates what the intelligence community calls “a wilderness of mirrors,” and that thrives in a foggy, less-defined environment. Spies tend to like working in the shadows. In the War Zones, CIA officers were constantly partnering with military personnel, who generally prefer a more precise definition of the battlefield and want to maintain a strong show of force. As more and more CIA officers spent time with their military counterparts, I watched a more military-style mentality seep into the agency. Back at headquarters in Langley, we started to see CIA officers show up dressed in cargo pants and Under Armour shirts. Buzz cuts seemed to appear everywhere.

    ...As the culture and mission of the agency changed, so did the workforce. The war on terror had created a burgeoning private intelligence, homeland security and defense industry. I saw many older and more experienced officers cash out to join the private sector. Others blasted the bureaucratic changes that seemed to hamper the flexibility the agency had previously held so dear. According to Weiner’s Legacy of Ashes, “By 2005, half of the CIA’s workforce—operators and analysts alike—had five years’ experience or less.” This new generation of young intelligence officers would be greatly influenced by the new mission and the new way of doing business. Now, 12 years on, those same officers are surely moving into management positions and mentoring younger officers coming in. The war on terror mindset is all they know.


Despite this, it looks like Obama was more interested in his "Russian reset," to the horror and frustration of some in U.S. intelligence and defense circles:


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-nuclear-summit-obama-medvedev-idUSBRE82P0JI20120326
    President Barack Obama was caught on camera on Monday assuring outgoing Russian President Dmitry Medvedev that he will have "more flexibility" to deal with contentious issues like missile defense after the U.S. presidential election.

    Obama, during talks in Seoul, urged Moscow to give him "space" until after the November ballot, and Medvedev said he would relay the message to incoming Russian president Vladimir Putin.

http://econintersect.com/pages/contributors/contributor.php?post=201608250446
    Getting Away With Murder

    Since returning to wetwork in the Putin era, Russian intelligence has encountered very few consequences to deter it from such nefarious activities. Russian operatives involved in assassinations in Turkey and Qatar were caught and subsequently released back to Russia. Despite publicly accusing Russian agents of murdering Litvinenko with tea spiked with polonium-210, the British government has little hope of ever gaining custody of the killers. Unable to interrogate the responsible parties, authorities in the United Kingdom have no evidence to implicate the likely masterminds behind the assassination, Russia's intelligence leadership. The United States has tried to sanction Russian officials for their role in illicit affairs. In 2012, Congress passed the Magnitsky Act to punish the officials responsible for the death of Russian lawyer Sergei Magnitsky in 2009. The Russians responded by barring Americans from adopting Russian children by American parents and blacklisting several U.S. officials.

    In light of Russian intelligence's far-flung and often unabashed operations, the Stepanova family is right to fear for its safety, even though it is living in the United States. After all, Stepanova and her family would not be the first people associated with the Russian doping scandal to die under mysterious circumstances. On Feb. 3, the chairman of Russia's anti-doping agency, who resigned in disgrace after Stepanova's revelations came to light, died suddenly. Less than two weeks later, the agency's former president succumbed to an unexpected massive heart attack.

http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/29/world/europe/29spy.html
    After years of F.B.I. surveillance, investigators decided to make the arrests last weekend, just after an upbeat visit to President Obama by the Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, said one administration official. Mr. Obama was not happy about the timing, but investigators feared some of their targets might flee, the official said.

http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2016/07/09/is-this-american-spy-dead-or-was-he-ever-real.html?via=mobile&source=twitter
    Known within the FBI as “Operation Ghost Stories,” the SVR illegals case was both sensationalized by the tabloid press—mostly thanks to the pouty and curvaceous Chapman—and downplayed by the Obama administration, then still in final stages of carting out its ambitious “reset” policy with Moscow, which had been running some of the illegals since before the collapse of the Soviet Union when the SVR was still the KGB.

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/fbi-sheds-new-light-on-russian-spy-ring/
    President Dmitry Medvedev awarded the 10 freed spies Russia's highest honors at a Kremlin ceremony.

    The swap was Washington's idea, raised when U.S. law enforcement officials told Mr. Obama that it was time to start planning the arrests.

    The case was brought to a swift conclusion before it could complicate the president's campaign to "reset" U.S. relations with Russia, strained by years of tensions over U.S. foreign policy and the 2008 Russian-Georgian war. All 10 of the captured spies were charged with failing to register as foreign agents.

http://www.politico.com/story/2015/09/pro-defense-farkas-wrightewing-214223
    The Pentagon’s top official overseeing military relations with Russia and Ukraine is resigning amid the ongoing debate within the Obama administration over how to respond to Russian moves in Ukraine and Syria.

    Evelyn Farkas, deputy assistant secretary of defense for Russia, Ukraine and Eurasia, is leaving her post at the end of next month after five years with the Defense Department, a senior defense official confirmed to POLITICO.

    Another senior defense official said the administration would likely have a hard time finding a replacement.

    "There are not a lot of Europe experts in this administration who have a long record of accomplishment," the official said. "There's no doubt this leaves the Pentagon weaker in terms of its policy-making on European issues."

    Farkas had no comment Tuesday.

    Her departure comes at a sensitive time for the administration as President Barack Obama’s national security team is divided over how to respond to Ukraine’s pleas for more advanced weapons to help battle Moscow-backed rebels and Russia’s military deployments in Syria.

    On one side are those who are open to providing lethal aid to Ukraine, including Obama’s own secretary of Defense, Ash Carter. On the other side are doves including Obama himself, who want to support Ukraine with non-lethal equipment but who fear that arming Ukraine against Russia might prompt an escalation that could bring the long-simmering crisis to a boil.

    So far, the president has constrained the U.S. response, opting to provide vehicles, counter-mortar radars, body armor and other such equipment — but not the anti-tank missiles or other weapons Ukraine really wants.

    ...Obama pushed out his previous defense secretary, Chuck Hagel, after he urged a stronger American response to Russia’s aggression. Hagel also questioned the president’s strategy for arming so-called moderate Syrian fighters against the Islamic State, a program that has since all but imploded in an embarrassment for the administration.

http://www.politico.com/story/2015/11/evelyn-farkas-russia-pentagon-215517
    Evelyn Farkas, who served as deputy assistant secretary of defense for Russia, Ukraine and Eurasia until last Friday, made clear in an exit interview with reporters on Wednesday that her departure "was not motivated by policy differences” that could not be bridged.

    But she acknowledged she advocated for the administration to do more to deter Russia, including providing “lethal, defensive assistance to Ukraine, primarily anti-tank weapons.” She and others at the Pentagon advocating lethal aid have been overruled by the White House.

    ...She insisted, though, that she wasn’t leaving the administration with any hard feelings, explaining that now was “a good time personally for me to leave.”

    “I will say that certainly I advocated for things internally, and I have personal views that may be further afield or may be slightly different from what the current administration position is, but I’ve always felt that I gave my advice and was listened to and we had a full hearing and we have a very healthy inter-agency process.”

    She demurred when asked about her post-Pentagon plans.

    “I’m going to take my time to decide exactly what is next, and I’ll leave it at that,” Farkas said.

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/three-white-house-officials-tied-to-files-shared-with-house-intelligence-chairman/2017/03/30/de4b8c30-1589-11e7-9e4f-09aa75d3ec57_story.html
    The interview took place after the New York Times reported that the Obama White House, fearing the new administration would sweep it under the rug, had spread information about Russian efforts to undermine the presidential election. Farkas said, “I was urging my former colleagues and . . . the Hill people, get as much information as you can, get as much intelligence as you can, before President Obama leaves the administration.”

    “That’s why there were so many leaks,” said Farkas, now a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council.

    ...Farkas, in an interview with The Post, said she “didn’t give anybody anything except advice,” was not a source for any stories and had nothing to leak. Noting that she left government in October 2015, she said, “I was just watching like anybody else, like a regular spectator” as initial reports of Russia contacts began to surface after the election.

    As a former staff member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and a former Defense official involved with Russian affairs, she said she “got worried” that the Obama White House was not briefing Congress on what it knew. “I know how the Russians operate,” she said, and called former colleagues to make sure Congress was being informed.

http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/presidential-races/305065-obama-on-election-the-sun-will-rise-in-the-morning
    Obama on election: 'The sun will rise in the morning'

https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/17/us/politics/obama-putin-russia-hacking-us-elections.html
    Obama Confronts Complexity of Using a Mighty Cyberarsenal Against Russia

http://money.cnn.com/2016/12/16/technology/obama-us-vulnerable-to-hacking/
    US more vulnerable to hacking than Russia, Obama says

https://www.usnews.com/news/national-news/articles/2017-01-18/at-last-presser-obama-insists-were-going-to-be-ok
    At Last Presser, Obama Insists ‘We’re Going to Be OK’


In addition to being downplayed by Obama, the scope and nature of Russia's activities as revealed by the USIC have also been called into question by certain journalists, officials, and "experts:"


http://historynewsnetwork.org/article/106101
    The recent public release, in defiance of the Russian government, of 1,115 pages of notes from the KGB archives has received a surprisingly muted response from historians. The notes, taken by Alexander Vassiliev, a former KGB officer, over a two year period, are a treasure trove that could and should be revitalizing the study of early Cold War espionage. The Vassiliev notebooks constitute the most wide-ranging, detailed source of information about the KGB's activities in America immediately before, during and for the decade after World War II, and will remain so unless and until Russia decides to open its intelligence archives. In contrast to most of the voluminous notes Vasili Mitrokhin, a KGB archivist, smuggled out of Russia, the Vassiliev notebooks along with English translations have been released and are freely available on the Internet.

    Rather than explore the extraordinary new insights into Soviet espionage Vassiliev's notebooks provide, most commentary about the notebooks, as well as reviews of a book based on them, Spies: The Rise and Fall of the KGB in America (Yale University Press, 2009), has followed the familiar contours of stale, decades-old debates over McCarthyism. The dust stirred by seemingly interminable scuffles between anti-Communists and anti-anti-Communists continues to obscure the study of Soviet espionage in America two decades after the fall of the Iron Curtain.

    The public discussion of the Vassiliev notebooks has largely centered on three themes. Two involve the guilt or innocence of cultural icons, Alger Hiss and I.F. Stone. The third argument is broader in scope. It is the suggestion that the now irrefutable evidence that hundreds of American Communists spied for the USSR is less important or interesting than the abuses committed by anti-Communists in the 1950s, and that documenting real espionage somehow validates Joseph McCarthy's witch hunts.

    The attention to the Vassiliev notebooks' new information about Hiss is tedious, but inevitable. This is a controversy that should have died 30 years ago and hasn't only because of the efforts of a small, vocal group that is absolutely convinced that Hiss was an innocent victim. No amount of documentation, including the fact that documents Vassiliev copied unambiguously identify him as a Soviet agent, can persuade these true believers otherwise.

http://www.dnaindia.com/world/report-defecting-kgb-agents-known-to-exaggerate-3517
    LONDON: “You have to be terribly cautious with all this spy stuff. KGB agents who defect are known for exaggerating just to market their own positions, after all they have a vested interest,” warned Mike Bowker, a Soviet expert at the University of East Anglia.

    Commenting on the revelations in The Mitrokhin Archive II which has got the Congress Party on the defensive, Bowker agreed with RK Dhawan that ‘suitcases full of banknotes were said to be routinely taken to Gandhi’s house' was definitely “an embellishment to sell books”.

http://spartacus-educational.com/Vasili_Mitrokhin.htm
    In August 1993, Ronald Kessler published his best-selling book, The FBI: Inside the World's Most Powerful Law Enforcement Agency, reported that the FBI had been interviewing a former KGB employee who had access to KGB files. "According to his account, the KGB had had many hundreds of Americans and possibly more than a thousand spying for them in recent years. So specific was the information that the FBI was quickly able to establish the source's credibility." Other journalists followed up the story and Time Magazine reported that "sources familiar with the case" of the KGB defector had identified him as a former employee of the First Chief Directorate, but described Kessler's figures of recent Soviet spies in the United States as "highly exaggerated".

https://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jul/07/kgb-defector-cold-war-vasil-mitrokhin-notes-public
    The FBI described the Mitrokhin files as "the most complete and extensive intelligence ever received from any source". However, intelligence analysts and some Soviet defectors have warned that the KGB seriously exaggerated the significance and number of its contacts and operations to impress the Soviet leadership – and increase its budget.

http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/29/world/europe/29spy.html
    “The magnitude, and the fact that so many illegals were involved, was a shock to me,” said Oleg D. Kalugin, a former K.G.B. general who was a Soviet spy in the United States in the 1960s and 1970s under “legal” cover as a diplomat and Radio Moscow correspondent. “It’s a return to the old days, but even in the worst years of the cold war, I think there were no more than 10 illegals in the U.S., probably fewer.”

http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/07/12/AR2010071205341.html
    Two questions: Have we caught all the "illegals" that Russia's security service, the SVR, has planted over the years in the United States? And will the SVR press the reset button with the Obama administration and not send additional "illegals" to this country?

    In a background briefing for reporters on Thursday, a senior administration official familiar with the Justice Department's assessment of the situation described how the 10 who were arrested as "sleeper agents" had been under investigation for years. The official added: "We have effectively shut down the illegal program here."

    Other sources in the law enforcement and intelligence communities do not share that view, although, of course, they will not say so publicly.

    As one former senior intelligence official put it, "How would we know?"

    The Russians have used "illegals" in their espionage activities since the October 1917 revolution. As the FBI put it in the June 27 complaint, "illegals" are provided false identities and documents, obtain citizenship or legal resident permits of target countries, and "pursue degrees at target-country universities, obtain employment, and join relevant professional associations." They "work to hide all connections between themselves and Russia, even as they act at the direction and under the control of the SVR." Gathering data on people who can later be recruited as spies is a primary goal, instead of stealing secrets themselves. In the trade, they are called spotters.

    ... The best public indication of the extent of Moscow's efforts comes from the late Sergei Tretyakov, the former Russian intelligence officer who under the guise of a press officer at the U.N. Mission ran espionage operations in New York City from 1995 to 2000. He served the last three of those years as a double agent for the FBI until he defected to the United States. As Tretyakov told author Pete Earley in the book "Comrade J," at one time he had more than 60 SVR officers working inside the United Nations and more than 160 contacts made up of illegals, outright spies, and other people who knowingly or unknowingly could supply information useful to Russia.

    ... What will the Russians do now? In a C-SPAN interview two years ago, Tretyakov said that when the Cold War was over, the United States asked Russia to stop the KGB's covert propaganda activities that portrayed Washington in foreign media as carrying out terrible activities, such as saying the United States was spreading HIV in Africa.

    In response, Tretyakov said, the KGB closed down "Department A," which ran those activities, but then established the MS program, which did the same thing. "Nothing changed," he said.

    The U.S. answer may have come on PBS's "NewsHour" last week.

    White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel told Jim Lehrer that the arrest of the 10 illegals, their guilty pleas and the prisoner exchange last week "sends a clear signal to, not only Russia, but other countries that will attempt this, that we are on to them."


In their document releases, the USIC has revealed that Russian intelligence agents have posed as journalists, including some of the "illegals" in the spy ring the FBI uncovered in 2010.
