https://www.nytimes.com/by/steven-lee-myers?action=click&contentCollection=World&module=Byline&region=Header&pgtype=article


Steven Lee Myers looks to be a Russian propagandist


so what's up with this article?


http://www.nytimes.com/2002/10/10/world/russia-s-view-of-chechnya-clashes-with-reality.html
	Russia's View of Chechnya Clashes With Reality

	By STEVEN LEE MYERS OCT. 10, 2002 

	This is how the commander of Russian forces in Chechnya, Col. Gen. Vladimir I. Moltenskoi, sees life here.

	''I watched with pleasure how 217 schools began their new school year this year,'' he said in his heavily fortified headquarters near here, ''how the university works, institutes work, how people visit markets, move about the republic, even travel beyond the republic.''

	''The situation,'' he added, ''is quite normal.''

	This is how it seems to Zarema Baisukhanova, a 21-year-old Chechen, the oldest of four sisters for whom life without war is but a youthful memory.

	''Our mother doesn't allow us to go to the central market,'' she said in her family's single room in a hostel on Grozny's outskirts, shared by the sisters, their parents, the husband of one sister and their baby. ''Anything may happen on the road. Something may explode. Russian soldiers may get drunk and shoot around.''

	''Practically speaking,'' she added, ''we stay at home.''

	What is most staggering about Chechnya today is not just the shocking scale of destruction, but the dissonance between the pronouncements of Russian officialdom and the realities of life in a place battered first by one war, and then, for the last three years, by another.



http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2001-07-12/news/0107120176_1_chechen-civilians-assinovskaya-russian
	MOSCOW — The commander of Russian military forces in Chechnya said Wednesday that his troops had committed "widespread crimes" in two days of terror they inflicted on the Chechen civilians of Assinovskaya and Sernovodsk, where 1,500 residents were arrested, subjected to beatings and electric shocks and saw their homes looted after mine blasts had killed Russian soldiers.

	Lt. Gen. Vladimir Moltenskoi, acting commander of Russian forces in the Northern Caucasus, assembled his subordinate officers at Russia's main military base in Khankala and in front of Russian news reporters engaged in rare self-criticism of the army's performance.


Moltenskoi doesn't always paint a rosy picture like Myers suggests


	...The general's public confession was prompted by strong protests from Chechen and Russian officials who are trying to re-establish order in the republic where rebels continue to ravage Russian army convoys with mine attacks while federal troops enforce repressive martial law conditions that engender deep resentment.


pressured to do this?


	The sudden outpouring of frustration and protest over the conduct of Russian military forces in Chechnya, triggered by this most recent assault, reflects the larger frustration that has been building for months. Moscow has been unable to consolidate a military victory that President Vladimir Putin has sought over the Chechen rebels since 1999, when as prime minister he initiated the military campaign.

	...On Wednesday, the Kremlin scrambled to recover from the image that the Russian military was waging a war against Chechen civilians. At the Khankala news conference, Moltenskoi indicated he would travel to the two villages terrorized by his soldiers to meet with aggrieved residents.


but they created that image...


	And in Moscow, Sergei Yastrzhembsky, an aide to Putin, said on Russian television that, "apparently, the very practice of mopping up operations should be changed, and perhaps it should become a feature of the past."


sounds like Russian public aware of what was going on in Chechnya?


	He said "pinpoint" operations, like the one that recently killed Arbi Barayev, notorious for his involvement in the kidnapping and hostage trade that has flourished in Chechnya, "are much more efficient."


interesting, sounds like trying to plug for FSB control of the war

also assert FSB killed Barayev


also on July 12:


http://articles.latimes.com/2001/jul/12/news/mn-21309
	MOSCOW — Russia's top commander in Chechnya denied Wednesday that his troops committed large-scale abuses during recent military operations, saying violations may have occurred but that they were on the "rank-and-file" level.

	Lt. Gen. Vladimir Moltenskoi insisted that large roundups of Chechen men in three villages last week were carefully planned and correctly executed. An administrative review is underway, he said, to find out if individual soldiers failed to follow orders.

	"I cannot talk about 'crimes,' " Moltenskoi said on state television. "What I can talk about are violations committed at the level of a rank-and-file soldier or policeman. Everything was planned right and carried out correctly, but some [individual] violations were committed."

	Earlier in the day, the Itar-Tass news agency quoted Moltenskoi as telling senior officers during a meeting that "those who conducted the mopping-up operation committed outrageous acts." But his later remarks, in response to a question about the Itar-Tass report, made clear that he meant to refer to individual soldiers, not Russian forces as a whole.


what's up with that?


Tass putting words in his mouth?


sounds like what they do here, report quotes out of context


	Although zachistka operations have been frequent throughout the war, roundups in three villages last week sparked an unusual furor. A large number of men were detained in Sernovodsk, Assinovskaya and Kurchaloi and later reported physical abuses that included beatings and electric shock torture. Many said they paid large sums of money for their freedom.

	Pro-Moscow Chechen officials have led the chorus of criticism, saying their delicate intermediary position between the Kremlin and the republic's citizens is increasingly untenable. Several mayors and other officials in the Moscow-backed Chechen administration tendered their resignations.

	President Vladimir V. Putin's representative in southern Russia, Viktor Kazantsev, delivered an apology to the mayors Wednesday and won their agreement to stay on in their jobs, the Itar-Tass news agency reported.


so Tass reporting on abuses in Chechnya, painting Putin as problem solver


public reaction for this particular incident said to be stronger than usual

	Liliya F. Shevtsova, a political analyst with the Carnegie Moscow Center think tank, said it is not clear whether Putin will push for accountability or continue to "waltz around" the issue.

	"Moscow does not have a clear-cut policy toward Chechnya, especially as to how severe the methods used against rebels should be. And there is no clarity on who will assume the final responsibility for these measures," she said.

	"If anyone from the federal troops is truly punished after all this, mid-level commanders in Chechnya will stop displaying any initiative at all," she added. "So, most probably, a little man will be found and made a scapegoat who will take the rap for everyone."


what does this mean? can't tell when they are just putting a spin for the public or trying to send a message


implication here is that military leadership is responsible but Putin doesn't want to hold them accountable

except military leadership not responsible and Putin does want to hold them accountable

------

https://jamestown.org/program/do-ethnic-russians-support-putins-war-in-chechnya-2/
	Among Americans who do not follow political developments in Russia closely – that is, among the overwhelming majority of Americans – there exists an impression that ethnic Russians (who comprise 80 percent of the population of the Russian Federation) strongly support Putin’s war in Chechnya. The reality of the matter, however, as we shall see, is quite different.

	Unlike the average American, ethnic Russians are painfully aware of the costs that they as a people have had to incur over the course of seven years of bloody warfare in Chechnya. The Yeltsin and Putin leaderships have not been forthcoming in revealing the number of Russian troops killed or severely wounded during the conflicts of 1994-1996 and 1999-present. One person, however, who has been in a position to obtain accurate information, is former Russian interior minister and deputy premier Anatoly Kulikov, currently the deputy chair of the State Duma’s Security Committee. In 2002, retired general Kulikov announced that “in the course of the two wars in Chechnya, Russia had lost as many men as in the war in Afghanistan in 1979-1989, that is, about 15,000” (see Lilia Shevtsova, Putin’s Russia [2003], p. 252). Let us reflect on that figure: after five years of fighting in Chechnya, Russia had already suffered as many fatalities as the Soviet Union incurred during ten years of combat in Afghanistan.

	...Generally unnoticed in the West, there has been a rising mood of protest in Russia directed against a bloody and costly war. In late December of 2004, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov announced that, beginning on January 1, 2005, no more Russian conscripts would be sent to Chechnya. Following the first of the year, he declared, only kontraktniki (volunteers) would be sent to the republic. This decision, it must be emphasized, was effectively forced upon Ivanov by Russian public opinion and by nascent Russian civil society, in particular by the Committee of Soldiers’ Mothers, which recently transformed itself into a political party. In early 2005, Ivanov announced that military deferments would not in the future be granted to young Russian men. He was presumably aware that such an announcement could not be made before the sending of conscripts to Chechnya had been ended as a practice.

	While Sergei Ivanov and Vladimir Putin doggedly push on with the war in Chechnya, the Russian public has increasingly been siding with the position of the Soldiers’ Mothers. In a recent nation-wide poll conducted by the prestigious Levada Center in Moscow, 64 percent of Russian respondents stated that they supported the position of the Mothers on fostering negotiations with the Chechen separatists while only 27 percent said that they were opposed. Among women, the support has been even more pronounced: 72 percent of women living in large Russian cities polled by the Levada Center held that “the activity of the Committee of Soldiers’ Mothers serves a beneficial purpose.” Nine percent were neutral toward the Committee’s activities while a mere five percent chose the vituperative response: “The Committee of Soldiers’ Mothers carries out the political command of the West to weaken the defense capacity of Russia.” 


so the war was unpopular


how exactly did Putin "use" the war to "boost his popularity," as oft repeated in Western media?

	...While ethnic Russians evince little affection for Chechens, they are also far from enamored of those of their countrymen who run the Russian war machine in Chechnya. In polls taken in late September 2004 by “Public Opinion” Foundation, whose results were reported by Gazeta.ru on October 1, 41 percent of Russian respondents believed that “the special services could but for certain reasons do not want” to find Chechen terrorist leader Shamil Basaev. Only seven percent were convinced that the services both wanted to and could find Basaev. Commenting on such views prevalent among the Russian public, Yuri Levada told Polit.ru last November: “If they [the Russian leaders] halted the war, it is not clear what the state, the army, and the generals would occupy themselves with. This is a very important part of life, around which there swirl both military ranks and careers, and enormous money and oil, and funds gained under the pretext of restoration [of housing and infrastructure in Chechnya].” Much of the Russian populace, as Levada notes, is of the opinion that greed and corruption underpin both the regime’s and the Russian power ministries’ commitment to pressing on with an unpopular war.


Interesting, many suspect Russian intel didn't want to find Basaev


	To sum up, the Russian public does not in the main support Vladimir Putin’s war in Chechnya. Rather they, like the Soldiers’ Mothers, favor a negotiated settlement to the conflict that would spare Russian soldiers further suffering and would also help to bring about the introduction of a much-needed military reform leading to the creation of a Russian professional army.


hmmm


so it's like FSB does Chechen war, war unpopular, blame Army, Putin comes in and "reforms" army with a purge, "negotiates" a peaceful end to the war?

so could use the war for coup in the army, create a problem for Putin to solve and make himself look better

------

http://discovery.ucl.ac.uk/1445136/1/U592450.pdf


giant thesis on Russian public opinion of Chechen wars, including section on media manipulation


pg 191

	While the government and military's efforts have indeed been slightly more efficient in conducting the conflict, Putin wanted also to limit the risks in regard to even the possibility of stirring opposition in Russian public opinion.


doesn't sound right	


	Freedom House has documented this trend against media freedom, as Steven Fish charts in his book, Democracy Derailed in Russia.


sounds sketchy


author claims Russia has an independent media

seems unlikely, as not even U.S. has an independent media


------

novoya gazeta head guy is very down on Chechen wars

wrote this article in english, or translated?

article was translated, first appeared on novoya gazeta


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/dec/12/-sp-chechnya-russia-war-anniversary


says FSB supported war effort


	Pavel Grachev, the Russian minister of defence, then promised to take Grozny with just two divisions of airborne troops: his new year’s attack failed and whole brigades were destroyed, giving way to bloody bombardments, a trade in hostages, terrorist attacks across Russia and a second Chechen war. To this day, no one knows how many people died.


says this guy looks dumb, or was naive


this is first Chechan war

first war helped bring down Yeltsin, make him less popular?


------


http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/russians-losing-the-propaganda-war-in-chechnya-5372316.html
	By Patrick Cockburn in Moscow 

	The conflict in Chechnya is confirming the saying that the first casualty of war is truth. During the fighting last month in the capital Grozny, a Russian armoured reconnaissance unit sent to locate Chechen firing positions was ambushed and suffered heavy losses as it entered Minutka square in the heart of the city.

	Foreign news agencies in Grozny reported that 115 Russian soldiers were lying dead amid the wreckage of their armoured vehicles. Russian defence officials denied that any battle had occurred at all.

	"In fact the agencies got it a little wrong," said Captain Jury Gladkevich of the independent Military News Agency in Moscow. "Our losses were 52 dead and wounded. It wasn't an attempt to storm Grozny. The Russian commander wanted to draw Chechen fire to find out where they were, but he underestimated their defences."

	The incident explains why Russia is doing so badly in the information war in Chechnya. No setback is ever admitted, however strong the evidence to the contrary. A Russian general speaks of 7,000 Chechen fighters killed - yet even a pro-Moscow Chechen politician says the real figure is 200. Official spokesmen lose credibility by the month.


"first casualty of war is the truth"

author implies "foreign" media can be trusted


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patrick_Cockburn
	He has written three books on Iraq's recent history. He won the Martha Gellhorn Prize in 2005, the James Cameron Prize in 2006, the Orwell Prize for Journalism in 2009,[2] Foreign Commentator of the Year (Editorial Intelligence Comment Awards 2013), Foreign Affairs Journalist of the Year (British Journalism Awards 2014), Foreign Reporter of the Year (The Press Awards For 2014). Seymour Hersh has described him as the "best western journalist at work in Iraq today."


suspicious

claimed to be an eyewitness of a massacre of Christians by ISIS he didn't see?

hit-peice in the daily beast:

http://www.thedailybeast.com/whos-lying-about-syrias-christian-massacre
	Patrick Cockburn, the Irish foreign correspondent for The Independent, has an eclectic following. He is admired by Noam Chomsky and Rand Paul; and last December, when he won the British equivalent of a Pulitzer for his coverage of Syria and Iraq, the judges declared his journalism in a “league of its own” and wondered “whether the Government should [consider] pensioning off the whole of MI6 and [hire] Patrick Cockburn instead.”


fishy

don't trust either of them


http://www.independent.co.uk/voices/comment/the-evidence-of-chemical-attack-seems-compelling-but-remember-there-s-a-propaganda-war-on-8778918.html
	The evidence of chemical attack seems compelling – but remember - there’s a propaganda war on

	The evidence so far for the use of chemical weapons by the Syrian army is second-hand and comes from a biased source

	Patrick Cockburn 

	Pictures showing that the Syrian army used chemical weapons against rebel-held Eastern Ghouta just east of Damascus are graphic and moving. But they are likely to be viewed sceptically because the claims so much resemble those made about Saddam Hussein’s possession of weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) before the US and British invasion of Iraq in 2003. 


so FSB (or SVR or w/e) blatantly attacking their own military


likely impossible to hide this from a lot of them, maybe most of them stationed here

says a lot about their character


http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/russians-losing-the-propaganda-war-in-chechnya-5372316.html
	A Russian general speaks of 7,000 Chechen fighters killed - yet even a pro-Moscow Chechen politician says the real figure is 200. Official spokesmen lose credibility by the month.


so this is what they wanted? "lose credibility by the month"

	After four months in which the Russian high command trumpeted a trouble-free advance through Chechnya, the ability of guerrillas to strike at the towns of Gudermes, Shali and Argun shocked the Russian media and public. "Suddenly it turned out that no defence was organised against potential strikes," wrote the daily newspaper Izvestia last week. "The troops were scattered all over the territory and mobile armoured units had no unified command."


"guerilla" strikes make them unpopular?


	Gen Kosarev and his journalists do not oppose Russia's war in Chechnya, but they are keen to see it properly reported. Capt Gladkevich, a specialist on Chechnya, said that, for example, "the number of Russian casualties is three or four times the official figure". The numbers are massaged to keep them low by various means, such as not reporting numbers of missing soldiers, most of whom are dead.

	Capt Gladkevich admits that he does not have an exact figure for Russian losses, despite repeated efforts to find out. It is, he said, a closely guarded secret. "When a senior medical office at the Ministry of Defence asked about our casualties, he was immediately cross-questioned about why he needed to know."


sounds like inflating casualty numbers?


	Few of AVN's reports have gone down well with the official spokesmen for the army or the Defence Ministry. With some glee, Gen Kosarev records how one such spokesman accused AVN of helping the Chechen rebels by revealing in advance that two senior Russian generals in operational command in Chechnya - Vladimir Shamanov and Gennady Troshev - were to be moved from their posts. Gen Kosarev promptly got up at a press conference and attacked the spokesman "for misleading the Russian public".


Kosarev sounds like a shill, revealing military internal affairs, calls them liars


	...The agency may also benefit from a growing willingness by the Russian media to admit that so far the official account of the war in Chechnya has been grossly misleading. The army announced the capture of villages and towns as soon as local Chechen leaders agreed to run up the Russian flag, but never really controlled them.


Russians distrust "mainstream media?"


http://www.newsweek.com/majority-russians-do-not-trust-national-media-510682
	The poll, carried out last week, found that while 42 percent of Russians watched for news surrounding the economy in 2015, only 30 percent did so this year.

	These figures follow another damning review of the media in Russia, after independent pollster Levada Center reported last week that only 27 percent of Russians trusted the media, ranking it less trustworthy than President Vladimir Putin, the army, the police and the church.

	However, the media still ranked higher in trustworthiness that the Russian government, which was trusted by only 26 percent, as well as the house of parliament and local government, neither of which won the trust of more than 25 percent of respondents.


is this right? support for Putin said to be high, but don't trust government

sort of like America I guess

a way to give him a cult of personality--don't trust media, government, army, but trust Putin
