http://www.npr.org/2016/08/02/488412831/russian-public-leans-toward-trump-in-u-s-presidential-election
	CORNISH: So once that reset fell apart, she came to be seen as an extension of Obama policies which are unpopular in Russia.

	FELGENHAUER: Yes, it's seen that the United States is punishing Russia for taking Crimea, which is seen as a Russian land. And the Americans imposed sanctions, and of course at the same time, the oil price collapse and that Russia is in a recession, and household incomes are falling and the state propaganda saying it's all the fault of the United States.


interesting, annexation of Crimea a point of contention between U.S., Russian people?

so are sanctions, can blame U.S. on slowdowns in economy


war in Afghanistan also said to be contentious for U.S. and Russian military, Russian military fears U.S. bases there


these things on purpose? like to make a split between U.S. and Russia?


not sure how reliable Felgenhauer is


http://www.pewglobal.org/2015/06/10/2-russian-public-opinion-putin-praised-west-panned/
	Regarding Ukraine, Russians believe the Luhans’k and Donets’k regions should secede, either becoming independent states or part of Russia. But Russians are divided about Ukraine’s place within the Eurasian Economic Union.


sounds like they do think Ukraine should be broken up, join Russia

not sure if Putin intended to divide Russia-U.S. or did these wars just because it would be easier for him to get away with them


War is draining Donetesk, eonomically crippled, so maybe former

	...Putin also receives majority approval for a common concern in many emerging countries around the world: corruption. About six-in-ten Russians (62%) approve of Putin’s handling of corruption, though a significant minority (29%) disapproves on this particular issue.


interesting--Putin seems to have made himself out to be a "reformer" after Chechen conflict. Did this contribute to this image?


views of U.S., West plumet starting 2011, accelerate 2013

	...Along with high approval of the state and nostalgia for the Soviet era, 61% of Russians agree with the statement that there are parts of neighboring countries that really belong to Russia. This sentiment has remained steady since 2002. However, in 1992, following the breakup of the Soviet Union, fewer than four-in-ten Russians believed that other countries belonged to the Russian state, and still fewer believed this in 1991 (22%).


interesting, this from propaganda?
