http://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/military/sd-me-troops-afghanistan-20170209-story.html
	He said declined to say in the open hearing whether Russia is providing support for the Taliban and in what way. Afterward, Nicholson told The Associated Press he was referring to classified intelligence. He would not discuss the matter further.

	The Russians recently invited representatives from the Taliban, China, Pakistan and other countries in the region to Moscow for meetings about Afghanistan's future, but did not include officials from the Kabul government, Nicholson said.

	..."Can we win?" asked Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C.

	Yes, Nicholson said. He described victory as a stable, centralized Afghan government and destruction of al-Qaida and IS.

	Leaving before then means it's "just a matter of time" before terrorists launch another attack on the United States from safe havens in Afghanistan, he said.


------

also

https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/mar/11/us-says-russia-backs-libya-warlord-in-oil-ports-battle
	In testimony to the Senate’s foreign relations committee on Thursday, the chief of the Pentagon’s Africa command, General Thomas D Waldhauser, said: “Russia is trying to exert influence on the ultimate decision of who and what entity becomes in charge of the government inside Libya.”

	Asked by Senator Lindsey Graham whether Russia was “trying to do in Libya what they are doing in Syria”, Waldhauser said: “Yes, that’s a good way to characterise it.”

	Waldhauser’s complaint was bolstered on Friday when Reuters broke the news that armed Russian “security contractors” have been on the ground in eastern Libya, officially to help Haftar’s forces in mine clearance operations. Western diplomats say there are striking parallels with Russia’s decisive intervention in the Syrian conflict.


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/jan/19/libya-us-airstrikes-isis-islamic-state
	Initial US estimates were that approximately 80 people were killed, who the Pentagon described as Isis fighters.

	The outgoing US defense secretary, Ashton Carter, said that some of those killed posed an urgent threat to America’s European allies.

	“They certainly are people who were actively plotting operations in Europe and may also have been connected to attacks that have already occurred in Europe,” Carter told reporters.

	“We need to strike Isil everywhere they show up. And that’s particularly true in view of the fact that we know some of the Isil operatives in Libya were involved with plotting attacks,” he said, using an alternative acronym for the group also known as Daesh and Isis.



------


https://www.brookings.edu/articles/putin-and-bush-in-common-cause-russias-view-of-the-terrorist-threat-after-september-11/

author seems sketchy?

but


	Since September 11, an explicit linkage has been made between fighters in Chechnya and al Qaeda. The press commonly describes al Qaeda forces captured and killed in Afghanistan as a mixture of Arabs, Pakistanis, and Chechens, though there has been no unofficial or official confirmation of ethnic Chechens in Afghanistan or among the al Qaeda detainees in the U.S. facility at Guantanamo Bay. Last February and March, al Qaeda forces were also reported to have fled Afghanistan to seek refuge among the Chechen population in Georgia’s Pankisi Gorge, again without explicit information on the numbers of fighters involved or their ethnic origin.


sounds right


what was Russian intel doing in Chechnya?


	...Putin has been increasingly careful to underscore that the war in Chechnya is waged against foreign-sponsored terrorists, not law-abiding Russian Muslims.


yet Trump can't even do that


------

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/the-birth-of-chechen-muslim-radicals/
	Their ancestors fought against the Orthodox Christianity of the Russian Czars, then the Communists of the Soviet Union, and now young Islamists lead the fight against the hard fist of Vladimir Putin's modern Russia. The Chechens, like the many Dagestani ethnic groups, want their own country with its own constitution. But the radical Muslims among them, influenced since the 1990s by al Qaeda and the Taliban, want to create pure Muslim lands governed by Sharia, or Islamic law.

	Their ties to al Qaeda began in 1992, when al Qaeda and its brother organization, the Haqqani Network, created the Furqan (a chapter in the Koran meaning "the criterion") Project, a training program for jihadists from the former Soviet Central Asian republics and the Caucasus Mountains.

	In 1994, Shamil Basayev, a young Chechen jihadist rebel leader, traveled to Peshawar, the Pakistani city along the Afghan border where al Qaeda was headquartered, bringing with him a group of young Chechen militants who called themselves the mujahideen (holy warriors). They met a man named Hamed Mustafa, a former Egyptian journalist, who was one of the first Arabs to come to Pakistan to join the Afghan mujahideen in their jihad against the Soviet Union. Mustafa took the nom de guerre Abu Walid al-Masri, and joined al Qaeda. 


------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shamil_Basayev
	Basayev was killed by an explosion on 10 July 2006. Controversy still surrounds who is responsible for his death, with Russian authorities claiming he was killed in an assassination by the FSB and the Chechen separatists claiming he died in an accidental explosion.


a bit odd?


started off Soviet, ties to pro-Russian militias

	It was rumored that the volunteers were trained and supplied by some part of the Russian army's GRU military intelligence service. According to The Independent journalist Patrick Cockburn, "cooperation between Mr Basayev and the Russian army is not so surprising as it sounds. In 1992–93 he is widely believed to have received assistance from the GRU when he and his brother Shirvani fought in Abkhazia, a breakaway part of Georgia." No specific evidence was given.[11]


working with the GRU?

	The Russian government newspaper Rossiyskaya Gazeta reported that Basayev was an agent of GRU, and another publication by journalist Boris Kagarlitsky said that "It is maintained, for example, that Shamil Basayev and his brother Shirvani are long-standing GRU agents, and that all their activities were agreed, not with the radical Islamists, but with the generals sitting in the military intelligence offices. All the details of the attack by Basayev's detachments were supposedly worked out in the summer of 1999 in a villa in the south of France with the participation of Basayev and the Head of the Presidential administration, Aleksandr Voloshin. Furthermore, it is alleged that the explosive materials used were not supplied from secret bases in Chechnya but from GRU stockpiles near Moscow."[12][13] The Russian newspaper Novaya Gazeta stated that the Basayev brothers "both recruited as agents by the Main Intelligence Directorate of the Russian General Staff (GRU) in 1991–92." The Russian newspaper Versiya published the GRU file on Basayev and his brother, which revealed that "both Chechen terrorists were named as regular agents of the military intelligence organization."


sounds like it

	Russian special forces joined with the Chechens under Basayev to attack Georgia. A GRU agent, Anton Surikov, had extensive connections with Basayev.[15] Russian military intelligence had ordered Basayev to support the Abkhaz.[16]

	Basayev received direct military training from the GRU since the Abkhaz were backed by Russia. Other Chechens also were trained by the GRU in warfare, many of these Chechens who fought for the Russians in Abkhazia against Georgia had fought for Azerbaijan against Armenia in the Nagorno-Karabakh war.[17]

	The Russians allowed Basayev to travel between Russia and Sukhumi to battle the Georgians.


so what exactly were they trying to do with this guy?

	...In 1993, Basayev lead the KNK corps, this unit under Basayev carried out war crimes in Georgia, decapitating Georgian civilians and "some victors even played football with their captives' severed heads." and that "Basayev himself beheaded dozens of Georgian captives, most of them civilians, in the Sukhumi sports stadium".[20]


	...According to Alexander Litvinenko's book Death of a Dissident, Kremlin-critic Boris Berezovsky said that he had a conversation with the Chechen Islamist leader Movladi Udugov in 1999, six months before the beginning of fighting in Dagestan.[28] A transcript of the phone conversation between Berezovsky and Udugov was leaked to one of Moscow tabloids on 10 September 1999.[29] Udugov proposed to start the Dagestan war to provoke the Russian response, topple the Chechen president Aslan Maskhadov and establish new Islamic republic of Basayev-Udugov that would be friendly to Russia. Berezovsky asserted that he refused the offer, but "Udugov and Basayev conspired with Stepashin and Putin to provoke a war to topple Maskhadov ... but the agreement was for the Russian army to stop at the Terek River. However, Putin double-crossed the Chechens and started an all-out war."[28] However, Litvinenko and Berezovsky provided little evidence for their claims. Researcher Henry Plater-Zyberk has described Litvinenko as "a one man disinformation bureau" who was hungry for attention and provided little, if any, evidence for his claims.[30]


So this the guy who started the Chechan war?


	...Michael Radu of the Foreign Policy Research Institute said "Basayev managed to radically change the world’s perception of the Chechen cause, from that of a small nation resisting victimization by Russian imperialism into another outpost of the global jihad. In the process, he also significantly modified the very nature of Islam in Chechnya and Northern Caucasus, from a traditional mix of syncretism and Sufism into one strongly influenced by Wahhabism and Salafism—especially among the youth. With Wahhabism came expansionism."[43]


sounds familiar


	...On 27 August, Basayev challenged Vladimir Putin to a personal duel, saying "The choice of weapon we leave to you. I am not the best sportsman and you are not invalid. So do agree. It will be more useful and more economical to both our peoples, and for the rest of mankind." 


At least he has one right idea


	...According to the US State Department, Basayev trained in Al-Qaida's terrorist camps in Afghanistan in 2001. The US also alleges that Basayev and Khattab sent Chechens to serve in Al-Qaeda's "055" brigade, fighting alongside the Taliban against the Northern Alliance in Afghanistan.[47]


So supporting Taliban while supporting Northern alliance?

	On 2 June 2001, it was reported General Gennady Troshev, then-commander-in-chief of Russian forces in Chechnya, had offered a bounty of one million dollars to anyone who would bring him the head of Basayev.


Russian military in opposition to FSB? did they know what was going on?


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gennady_Troshev
	During his career as a commander in Chechnya he gained notoriety after advocating public executions of separatist fighters.[4][5] Human rights activists had accused him of tolerating rampant abuses in the war-ravaged republic.[6] Early in the war he declared that the shattered city of Grozny should never be rebuilt so as to serve as a warning against "treason to Russia's ethnic minorities".[2] He also publicly defended Yuri Budanov, who was on trial for the rape and murder of an 18-year-old Chechen woman, Elza Kungayeva.[7]

sounds sketchy

	Troshev publicly defied, on national television, Minister of Defense Sergei Ivanov's suggestion that he should relocate from Chechnya in the North Caucasus Military District to the command of the Siberian Military District. In response, President Vladimir Putin signed a decree dismissing Troshev from his post in 2002.[8]


but Putin opposed to him?

	Troshev died on 14 September 2008. He was a passenger aboard Aeroflot Flight 821, which crashed and left no survivors. Russian officials have dismissed public suspicions that the plane might have been sabotaged.[11]


seems like it


troshev was ousted after a terrorist attack on Chechan leader likely by FSB


------


Kadyrov, fawns over Putin, involved with FSB, and leader of Chechnya, said to be involved in middle east.

Kadyrov also is supposed to be opposed to the Chechan rebels, who are also involved with al-qaeda and Taliban and such



http://www.al-monitor.com/pulse/fr/contents/articles/originals/2016/11/chechnya-kadyrov-russia-mideast-diplomacy.html
	From that perspective, Kadyrov might be a Kremlin messenger. Having warm personal ties with Saudi leaders, a reputation of being a strongman and ambitions of becoming a renowned Islamic authority, he is well-positioned to better convey Russia’s interests to the Saudis as well as to negotiate thorny issues between Moscow and Riyadh.


interesting

maybe Kadyrov important for Putin plan to woo Muslim world?


	...Finally, at the international level Kadyrov is trying to play out what is likely his strongest attribute: “fighter of all things Salafi.” Last week, he announced that the International Training Center for Elite Special Forces will be built in Chechnya by 2018. The planned center would be situated on 400 hectares (1.5 square miles) and have up to 40 training facilities, including shooting ranges, swimming pools and a runway. The center would focus its activity mainly on three aspects: climbing buildings, planting and using explosives, and hostage release. In announcing the center, Kadyrov said he’d like to invite about 200 “American private military instructors” to work at the center: “I don’t think those American special forces that are now on active duty can teach Russians a lot of new things. Yet you can’t deny that there are really cool guys in the US with great experience in covert operations in Latin America, Asia, Africa.”


wants to "team up" with U.S. to "fight terrorism"

iirc at one point Kadyrov was a terrorist

or still is


https://www.rt.com/politics/kadyrov-chechnya-militants-emissary/


RT makes it sound like Kadyrov is cooling tensions with al Qaeda

------


http://dailytimes.com.pk/world/13-Jun-17/putins-divine-revelations

Putin denies being behind Al-Qaeda


------

some indications Russian intel intended to support Chechen terrorists broadly--Russian propagandists like Cockburn pointed to the guerrilla warfare against army there, "failures" in mistreatment of civilian opposition and suffering terrorist attacks. A sense that they intended for war to be unpopular as part of a plan to discredit Russian military leadership, and controlling the opposition an important part of that plan.


Basayev also an agent of theirs, even Russian public doubted that Russian gov wanted to go after Basayev (sign of a power struggle?).  Former "Jihadists" like Kadyrovs also work with FSB, and Razman Kadyrov ends up installed as puppet for Putin.

Motive for assassinating elder Kadyrov, and some indications of FSB involvement (Basayev video), although the video may be a fake to discredit such allegations.

One motive would be to install Razman Kadyrov. Another is that the incident was used to purge certain members of Russian military and FSB leadership, others.

Clear signs of Russian propagandists attacking General Troshev (e.g. Chris Stephen), who was said to be planning to oppose Putin politically. Russian propagandists appear to try to discredit Troshev by tying him to military "failures," real or imagined. Troshev ally Kvashnin purged after elder Kadyrov assassination (https://sputniknews.com/analysis/2004072039765480/), then Troshev later dies in an airline accident.



------

https://zenobiuszjuz.wordpress.com/2015/02/01/putins-russia-links-between-kremlin-and-international-terrorism/

http://en.delfi.lt/central-eastern-europe/putins-russia-why-it-is-worth-to-reconsider-links-between-kremlin-and-international-terrorism.d?id=66687172
	Putin’s Russia. Why it is worth to reconsider links between Kremlin and international terrorism


	...Apart from all this, there is now an official statement from Amnesty International that ‘based on the collected evidence, Russia is fueling the conflict both by direct intervention and by supporting separatists in the East’. In the US more than 100 thousand people signed the petition that Russia, based on all facts, should be declared a state sponsor of terrorism with all the awaiting consequences.


popular support for Russia being declared a state sponsor of terrorism?


	...On August 24, 2006, the website of US National Review magazine published a very important, yet seemingly unheard warning from Ion Mihai Pacepa, the former head of Romanian foreign intelligence. The publication was called „Russian Footprints”.


should check this out


	...The main thing that encouraged to react to Pacepa more seriously was the news that Russia provides guns to terrorists. Pacepa’s article started with the public information that in the so-called Israel- Hezbollah war, the latter group (widely considered a terrorist organisation) used Russian weapons.

	As a matter of fact, Kremlin would have explained this in the similar manner as it does now in Ukraine – ostensibly guns can be purchased in a supermarket. But one batch of weapons left on the battlefield by Hezbollah testified unequivocally. It had a label on it: ‘Recipient – Syrian Ministry of Defence; the sender – KBP, Tula, Russia’.


KGB mailing guns to terrorists


	...Pacepa started his reminiscence with the sentence that was constantly drilled in his head by Sakharovsky: ‘In the modern world, where nuclear weapons made military force insignificant, terrorism has to become our main weapon.’

	Pacepa, based of his experience and knowledge, explained how KBG built the modern Islamic terrorism. Naming the operation codes and specific terrorist acts, he revealed how it was executed not only against Israel and Jewish community but also the targets in Western Europe.

	According to Pacepa, in 1971 when he was visiting Lubyanka in Moscow, Sakharovskij drew his attention to the sea of red flags pinned to a world map. Each flag symbolised hijacking of an airplane. ‘Plane hijacking is my invention’ – he allegedly said proudly to his Romanian colleague.


terrorism KGB's main weapon

	...He admitted that Putin was the first to offer help to US after September 11, 2001. But, according to Pacepa, who knows many KGB secrets, ‘Putin started his country’s comeback to terrorist affairs already in 2002’ – he quietly began to supply guns to Iran’s terrorist regime, as well as the construction of a controversial Bushehr nuclear power plant which may have contributed to Iran’s acquisition of a nuclear weapon.


Putin started "comeback" to terrorism affairs already before 2002.


	...Exfiltrated by the Secret Intelligence Service in 1992, Mitrokhin and his documents were made available to Cristopher Andrew, British historian, after an initial and thorough review by the security services. Andrew was the first individual, not related to secret services, who was granted such unprecedented access. Based on this material, he released two books – The Sword and the Shield: The Mitrokhin Archive and the Secret History of the KGB and The World Was Going Our Way: The KGB and the Battle for the Third World.


so that is the "second volume" of Mitrokhin archive? should get it

great info in this article, guy is probably not a Russian spy


here it is on archive.org

https://archive.org/stream/TheWorldWasGoingOurWayTheKGBAndTheBattleForTheTheThirdWorld/The%20World%20Was%20Going%20Our%20Way_djvu.txt


------


https://zenobiuszjuz.wordpress.com/2015/02/01/putins-russia-do-traces-of-kgb-fsb-and-gru-lead-to/

http://en.delfi.lt/central-eastern-europe/putins-russia-do-traces-of-kgb-fsb-and-gru-lead-to-islamic-state.d
	However, after long years of exploring Putin’s current regime and it’s KGB roots, I believe that Crooke’s headline can be rephrased like this: ‘Is it really possible to fully understand the phenomenon of the Islamic state without paying attention to the alleged links between Russian secret services and Chechen terrorists?’


good question!

	In general, the links between Chechen terrorist and Russian secret services cannot be denied even by those Western experts and commentators who tend to call these links a conspiracy theory.

	The fact that the famous Shamil Basayev, Ruslan Gelayev and some others Chechen terrorist commanders began their career not only fighting on the Russian side during the Georgian-Abkhaz war, but were directly trained by the special forces of Russian military intelligence (GRU), was basically never even denied in Russia. The traces of GRU agents were not a secret as well.


says he was with the GRU in that war

was he still with GRU in Chechen war? Russian military intelligence attacking military?

I guess GRU, FSB, Tass, Duma, doesn't matter--all the same shadow organization


	Even Yuri Drozdov, the legend of Russian secret services, former KGB General-Major and a longtime chairman of the board at ‘S’, in his interview for fontanka.ru in 2011 publicly admitted that all this information about Basayev was true. According to Drozdov, Basayev was ‘one of the leaders of a special military division’.


So not just Litvinenko saying Basayev with Russian intel


	Also undenied is the fact that Basayev’s incursion into Dagestan and house bombing afterwards contributed, to say the least, to Putin’s coming to power. The Western world has less and less doubt that this was all a well-executed, although seemingly unthinkable, operation of Russian secret services.


And even some in Russia, apparently. Most didn't think FSB wanted to catch him.


------

https://www.the-american-interest.com/2016/10/04/we-are-fooling-ourselves-about-russia/


interesting take by one of the authors of the KGB ISIS article

dunno if true we should "give up" on Russia just yet...

Russian citizens at least think they have a democracy (mostly?), expect government for the people I think

https://www.hudson.org/experts/1104-marius-laurinavicius

author sounds legit afaik, could be one of those "ultra cold warrior to paint west as boogeyman" types but not sure
