https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/19/us/politics/donald-trump-ukraine-russia.html
	A week before Michael T. Flynn resigned as national security adviser, a sealed proposal was hand-delivered to his office, outlining a way for President Trump to lift sanctions against Russia.


That's it? an envelope delivered? that means nothing

Did Flynn care? even read it?


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/national-security-adviser-flynn-discussed-sanctions-with-russian-ambassador-despite-denials-officials-say/2017/02/09/f85b29d6-ee11-11e6-b4ff-ac2cf509efe5_story.html
	Flynn’s communications with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak were interpreted by some senior U.S. officials as an inappropriate and potentially illegal signal to the Kremlin that it could expect a reprieve from sanctions that were being imposed by the Obama administration in late December to punish Russia for its alleged interference in the 2016 election.


according to Miller, Entous, and Nakashima

what did Flynn actually say?



http://www.cbsnews.com/news/russians-destroyed-and-removed-material-from-shuttered-compounds-officials-say/
	The Russians were given 24 hours to get out of the compound and 72 hours to leave the country. Current U.S. officials tell CBS News they vacated the compounds before the 24-hour deadline, striking some as odd and raising the question of whether the diplomats had been tipped off about their expulsion.


tipped off by who?

	...Last month, the Washington Post reported that the Trump administration was moving toward handing back the compounds. The Senate last week passed a bill in a 98-2 vote that would impose additional sanctions on Russia for its election activities. The measure includes a provision requiring congressional approval over any move by the administration to return the compounds back to the Russians.


So the compound had intel useful for 2016 election inteference, tipped off, a spy center basically, Trump wants to hand it back?

------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/trump-administration-moves-to-return-russian-compounds-in-maryland-and-new-york/2017/05/31/3c4778d2-4616-11e7-98cd-af64b4fe2dfc_story.html
 	Trump administration moves to return Russian compounds in Maryland and New York 
	By Karen DeYoung and Adam Entous 


	In early May, the Trump administration told the Russians that it would consider turning the properties back over to them if Moscow would lift its freeze, imposed in 2014 in retaliation for U.S. sanctions related to Ukraine, on construction of a new U.S. consulate on a certain parcel of land in St. Petersburg.


So early May, someone in Trump admin strikes up this deal

if deal for real, clearly Trump would know...


but two days later Tillerson tells Lavrov deals off

	In Moscow on Wednesday, Kremlin aide Yury Ushakov said Russia was “taking into account the difficult internal political situation for the current administration” but retained the option to reciprocate for what he called the “expropriation” of Russian property “if these steps are not somehow adjusted by the U.S. side,” the news outlet Sputnik reported.


a political situation which they created...

	In late December, after U.S. intelligence said there had been election meddling, and in response to the ongoing harassment in Moscow, Obama ordered the compounds closed and diplomats expelled. “We had no intention of ever giving them back,” a former senior Obama official said of the compounds.

	Trump, then at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, appeared to disparage the Obama administration sanctions, telling reporters, “I think we ought to get on with our lives.”

	Surprisingly, Russia did not respond. It later emerged that Flynn, in a phone conversation with Kislyak, had advised against retaliation and indicated that U.S. policy would change under the Trump administration.


So Flynn said things will get better, don't retalliate


then supposedly Trump org wants to give back compound



	The Kremlin made clear that the compound issue was at the top of its bilateral agenda. Russia repeatedly denounced what it called the “seizure” of the properties as an illegal violation of diplomatic treaties.

	On May 8, the U.S. undersecretary of state for political affairs, Thomas Shannon, traveled to New York to meet with his Russian counterpart, Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov on what the State Department described as “a range of bilateral issues” and what Russia called “irritants” and “grievances.”

	Ryabkov brought up the compounds, while Shannon raised St. Petersburg and harassment, suggesting that they deal with the operation of their diplomats and facilities in each others’ countries separate from policy issues such as Syria and proposing that they clear the decks with a compromise.

	Russia refused, saying that the compound issue was a hostile act that deserved no reciprocal action to resolve and had to be dealt with before other diplomatic problems could be addressed. In an interview with Tass, Ryabkov said Moscow was alarmed that Washington “carries on working out certain issues in its traditional manner, particularly concerning Russia’s diplomatic property in the states of Maryland and New York.”

	Two days later in Washington, Tillerson told Lavrov that the United States would no longer link the compounds to the issue of St. Petersburg.


So what is Russia saying "no just give it back no other deal its a hostile act," then what is Tillerson saying? did he agree?

	Immediately after their May 10 meeting at the State Department, Tillerson escorted Lavrov and Kislyak to the Oval Office. There, they held a private meeting with Trump. The night before, the president had fired FBI Director James B. Comey, who was then heading an FBI investigation of the Russia ties.


Trump talk about this compound deal?


I don't buy it.


They don't say what Trump actually talked about.


guessing he would want to give it back as part of some kind of Ukraine "peace deal." He said so on twitter baiscally.


-------

https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/862788002594127873
	Yesterday, on the same day- I had meetings with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and the FM of Ukraine, Pavlo Klimkin. #LetsMakePeace!

	2:54 PM - 11 May 2017


https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/05/10/readout-vice-president-mike-pences-meeting-foreign-minister-pavlo

 	Vice President Mike Pence met with Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin of Ukraine today. The Vice President emphasized unwavering U.S. support for Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. He underscored that the Minsk agreements remain the most viable path towards peace. Following that meeting, the President spoke with the Foreign Minister and reaffirmed U.S. support for Ukraine and his desire to work with our Ukrainian partners to peacefully resolve the conflict.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minsk_Protocol


seems like those didn't work so well? and Russia just funds terrorists in Ukraine anyway

http://www.economist.com/blogs/economist-explains/2016/09/economist-explains-7
	What are the Minsk agreements?

	The plan to bring lasting peace to Ukraine is riddled with loose language

uh huh ok


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/877341043171241984
	It was a great honor to welcome President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine to the @WhiteHouse today with @VP Pence. ➡️http://45.wh.gov/zfnsbA 

	6:42 PM - 20 Jun 2017

what was he doing here



https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/875682853585129472
	After 7 months of investigations & committee hearings about my "collusion with the Russians,"  nobody has been able to show any proof. Sad!
	4:53 AM - 16 Jun 2017 

hehehe


------


http://www.businessinsider.com/trump-wanted-to-lift-russia-sanctions-days-after-taking-office-2017-6
	Former officials: Trump seemed prepared to lift Russia sanctions 'in exchange for absolutely nothing'
	Natasha Bertrand

according to Bertrand


my guess so far: maybe right

guess probably going to do a peace deal, lift sanctions for cease-fire in Ukraine.

except Russia can just ignore deal in plausibly deniable ways and still exert control over Ukraine, which they always seem to do, like holodomor or something.

But if they can make it plausibly deniable enough for Fox News then Trump gets away with it, looks like he's a peace maker, improve relations, everything great, etc.


or something like that?

a question of would he lift the Ukraine sanctions, or the sanctions for the election interference that go with it too?


But if ultimately it looks like a peace deal, a big happy peace deal that the USIC is trying to block, then they can make the USIC look bad, like "oh my goodness you're trying to block a peace deal! you want *WAR*! for the deep state war machine!"


looks like they're prepping for that anyway.


------


http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/former-diplomats-trump-team-sought-lift-sanctions-russia-n767406
	Jun 1 2017, 11:22 pm ET
	Former Diplomats: Trump Team Sought to Lift Sanctions on Russia

	 The Trump administration was gearing up to lift sanctions on Russia when the president took office, but career diplomats ginned up pressure in Congress to block the move, two senior former State Department officials told NBC News Thursday.

	It's the latest evidence that President Trump moved to turn his favorable campaign rhetoric about Russia into concrete action when he took power.

	Daniel Fried, who served as a senior diplomat until he retired in late February, said he became aware of the sanctions effort in the early weeks of Trump's presidency.

 	He said State Department colleagues approached him, "concerned that the Trump administration, the incoming team was going to unilaterally rescind the sanctions on Russia, which had been placed there because of Russia's aggression on Ukraine. And it was further said by these people that there would be no action required from Russia." 


hmmm, same thing, saying Trump to unilaterally remove sanctions


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/global-opinions/inside-the-trump-administrations-plans-to-restart-the-ukraine-peace-process/2017/05/28/391da144-4234-11e7-8c25-44d09ff5a4a8_story.html
	For Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who is leading the behind-the-scenes effort, Ukraine is where Trump’s so-far thwarted plan to improve U.S.-Russian relations can be kick-started. Although still in its early stages, Tillerson’s idea is to restart a version of the peace negotiations that the Obama administration was engaged in last year, hoping that new circumstances and personalities might produce better results, according to U.S. officials and outside experts.


is that referring to Minsk agreements?


	There are skeptics across the administration who believe pursuing any type of Russia reset in a domestic political environment dominated by investigations of Russia’s interference in the U.S. political system is a fool’s errand. But Trump and Tillerson are determined to give it try.


right, the "cloud"


	Germany and France have been involved in what’s called the Normandy Format, an effort to implement the 2015 Minsk agreement, which is stalled due to cease-fire violations on the ground primarily by Russian-backed forces and a lack of Ukrainian political progress. Their hope is that the United States can break the impasse.


so Minsk agreements?


	Trump’s shift became evident on May 10, when he held a widely reported discussion with Russia Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and a less-noticed meeting with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin.

	“I said, fellas you got to make peace, you got to get peace,” Trump later told Fox News. 


is this really a shift? or what Trump was planning all along?


	What’s different now, officials say, is that Russian President Vladimir Putin can no longer bide his time waiting for a more favorable U.S. administration, as he did last year. The German and French governments are not getting more Russia-friendly any time soon.


"waiting for a more favorable administration"


	If the Trump team does its best to strike a deal with Moscow and fails, at least Putin’s true intentions will be laid bare. Then the administration will have little choice but to pursue a path of actively pushing back on Russian aggression, increasing support for Ukraine’s government and military, and abandoning the idea of yet another Russian reset.


hmmm

Trump wants to try "Russian reset" again? because he's such a good "dealmaker"?

problem is it does look like he's being blackmailed by his tax returns.


https://twitter.com/joshrogin/status/864511105619685376
	McMaster on which city Trump revealed: "It was nothing that you would not know from open source reporting as a source of concern."
	9:01 AM - 16 May 2017 


Josh Rogan actually bothered to watch McMasters press conference? interesting


https://twitter.com/joshrogin/status/861619951597125633
	Washington Loves General McMaster, But Trump Doesn't https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-05-08/washington-loves-general-mcmaster-but-trump-doesn-t … by @EliLake @BV

why is he RTing Eli Lake?

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/josh-rogin/wp/2017/04/04/mcmaster-staffing-nsc-with-traditional-gop-foreign-policy-hands/?utm_term=.a510411aaf8d
	National security adviser H.R. McMaster is continuing to fill out his national security staff with conservative foreign policy experts from the establishment think-tank world, preferring them to the military intelligence types favored by his predecessor, retired Gen. Michael T. Flynn.


ehhh

something off about this


------

https://www.ft.com/content/e1e179bc-a74e-11e6-8898-79a99e2a4de6?mhq5j=e3
	As Donald Trump’s election victory was confirmed, Michael McFaul, former US ambassador to Moscow, was quick to identify where the consequences would be felt. “Biggest loser in the world tonight — Ukraine,” he tweeted.

but isn't McFaul a Russian spy?

------

http://foreignpolicy.com/2016/08/01/ukrainian-officials-to-donald-trump-please-stop-talking-about-our-country/
	“OK, well, he’s there in a certain way, but I’m not there yet,” Trump said, before insisting “that whole part of the world is a mess under Obama” and claiming that those living on the Crimea peninsula, which Russia illegally annexed from Ukraine in 2014, might actually be happier under Russian control.


kinda weird he said that though...


------


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/week-transcript-donald-trump-vice-president-joe-biden/story?id=41020870
	Jul 31, 2016, 9:01 AM ET

	...STEPHANOPOULOS: Vice President Biden told me this week that Vladimir Putin wants to beat Hillary and Madeleine Albright said that your victory would be a gift to Putin.

	And what they're pointing to is things like your statements about conditioning our commitments to NATO allies, softening the GOP platform on Ukraine, even considering softening sanctions and recognizing Russian annexation of Crimea. They fear that that's going to hurt America and advance Russia's interests.

	TRUMP: They only fear one thing, losing the election. If our country got along with Russia, that would be a great thing. When Putin goes out and tells everybody -- and you talk about a relationship, but he says Donald Trump is going to win and Donald Trump is a genius, and then I have people saying you should disavow. I said, I'm going to disavow that?

	But when Putin says good things and when we have a possibility of having a good relationship with Russia... 

	STEPHANOPOULOS: But if we have a good relationship...

	TRUMP: -- I think...

	(CROSSTALK)

	STEPHANOPOULOS: -- his annexation of Crimea.


Trump said he wants to let Putin annex Crimea? where?


	TRUMP: I'm not going to be mean to anybody. George, you know me pretty well. I don't bow, OK. I don't bow.

	But if we can have a good relationship with Russia and if Russia would help us get rid of ISIS, frankly, as far as I'm concerned, you're talking about tremendous amounts of money and lives and everything else, that would be a positive thing, not a negative thing. 


right, the plan to team up against ISIS--worked so well before!

	STEPHANOPOULOS: Then why did you soften the GOP platform on Ukraine?

	TRUMP: I wasn't involved in that. Honestly, I was not involved.

	STEPHANOPOULOS: Your people were.

	TRUMP: Yes. I was not involved in that. I'd like to -- I'd have to take a look at it. But I was not involved in that. 


not involved? "have to take a look?" really?

	 STEPHANOPOULOS: Do you know what they did?

	TRUMP: They softened it, I heard, but I was not involved. 


then he says he runs a "fantastic campaign"


	 STEPHANOPOULOS: They took away the part of the platform calling for the provision of lethal weapons to Ukraine to defend themselves.

	Why is that a good idea?

	TRUMP: Well, look, you know, I have my own ideas. He's not going into Ukraine, OK?

	Just so you understand. He's not going to go into Ukraine, all right?

	You can mark it down and you can put it down, you can take it anywhere you want.

	STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, he's already there, isn't he?

	TRUMP: OK, well, he's there in a certain way, but I'm not there yet. You have Obama there. And frankly, that whole part of the world is a mess under Obama, with all the strength that you're talking about and all of the power of NATO and all of this, in the meantime, he's going where -- he takes -- takes Crimea, he's sort of -- I mean...

	STEPHANOPOULOS: But you said you might recognize that.

	TRUMP: I'm going to take a look at it. But, you know, the people of Crimea, from what I've heard, would rather be with Russia than where they were. And you have to look at that, also.


Does Trump not understand that Crimea is a part of Ukraine?


	Now, that was under -- just so you understand, that was done under Obama's administration. And as far as the Ukraine is concerned, it's a mess. And that's under the Obama's administration, with his strong ties to NATO.

	So with all of these strong ties to NATO, Ukraine is a mess. Crimea has been taken. Don't blame Donald Trump for that. 

	 STEPHANOPOULOS: You said that...

	TRUMP: And we'll do better and yet we'll have a better relationship with Russia.

	And having a good relationship -- maybe. and having a good relationship with Russia is a good thing, not a bad thing. 


so wtf is Trump planning to do in Ukraine?


recognize Crimea in exchange for peace? lift sanctions?

he denies changing GOP platform, when he was involved, so he knows it looks bad

denies meeting Putin as well, or talking to him somehwat


------

https://medium.com/@bb06/errata-and-addenda-d3d7facc50b3
	We support maintaining and, if warranted, increasing sanctions, together with our allies, against Russia unless and until Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity are fully restored. We also support providing appropriate assistance to the armed forces of Ukraine and greater coordination with NATO defense planning.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/global-opinions/trump-campaign-guts-gops-anti-russia-stance-on-ukraine/2016/07/18/98adb3b0-4cf3-11e6-a7d8-13d06b37f256_story.html
	Trump campaign guts GOP’s anti-Russia stance on Ukraine


why does Josh Rogin put blame on Trump campaign and not Trump? even if Trump didn't order this, he clearly let it happen.


------


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/week-transcript-donald-trump-vice-president-joe-biden/story?id=41020870
	 STEPHANOPOULOS: You said that...

	TRUMP: And we'll do better and yet we'll have a better relationship with Russia.

	And having a good relationship -- maybe. and having a good relationship with Russia is a good thing, not a bad thing.

	STEPHANOPOULOS: You said you have no investments in Russia.

	But do you owe any money to Russian individuals and institutions?

	TRUMP: No. Not.

	STEPHANOPOULOS: No?

	TRUMP: The primary thing I did what Russia -- I bought a house in Palm Beach at a bankruptcy. It was a bankrupt, you know, person. I bought it from the banks. I bought it for about $40 million. I sold it for $100 million to a Russian.
	
	That was probably five years ago. And that was primarily it.
	
	STEPHANOPOULOS: You partner now with...
	
	TRUMP: Now, well I sell...
	
	STEPHANOPOULOS: (INAUDIBLE) Grand...
	
	TRUMP: Will I sell -- many years ago. I don't think they're Russian. I think there were other people, but there were various partners.
	
	Will I sell condos to Russians on occasion?
	
	Probably.
	
	I mean I do that. I have a lot of condos. I do that. But I have no relationship to Russia whatsoever. 


interesting, why does he bring that up? "will I sell Condos to Russians? probably."


Does he, perhaps, know about money laundering deals involving selling Condos to Russians?

	 STEPHANOPOULOS: No debts?
	
	TRUMP: No debts. I have very little debt to anybody. I don't need debt. You know, it's very interesting, I'm so liquid, I don't need debt. And if I need debt, if I want debt, I can get it from banks in New York City very easily.
	
	STEPHANOPOULOS: You know where I'm going to take this next. Americans could be assured on that if they saw your tax returns.
	
	TRUMP: My tax returns are very simple. They're under a minor audit, a routine audit, as they have been for many years. Every year I get audited.
	
	Now, I don't know if you get audited but I have friends...
	
	STEPHANOPOULOS: I've been audited.
	
	TRUMP: -- who are very wealthy that never have been audited. I say -- you get audited. I get audited every year. I'm under a routine audited like routine. And I've been for years, every year.
	
	STEPHANOPOULOS: Is there something...
	
	(CROSSTALK)
	
	TRUMP: George, it is very simple. Yes, but they're all linked. It's called the link.
	
	It's very simple, if my audit is finished, that's great. 

	 Now, I have to tell you. I watched Mitt Romney four years ago. He waited until September to give them, just before the election. They made him look so bad, it was so unfair, I actually think he didn't lose because of the 47 percent, I think he lost because of a couple of really minor items in tax return where he did nothing wrong. So it is unfair.
	
	But I will say, when I'm finished with the audit, I'll do it.
	
	STEPHANOPOULOS: Richard Nixon released his even though his were under audit.
	
	TRUMP: I don't use Richard Nixon as necessarily the guide, OK. I mean, you know, it's an interesting person to use, but don't use it.


he's obviously lying, hiding something. Has no excuse.

Sounds like an excuse in there that there could be "minor items" that could affect his campaign

well sure


but now there are protests in the streets asking for his tax returns, and he's not campaigning...


------


http://www.npr.org/2016/12/29/507436692/obama-expels-35-diplomats-imposes-retaliatory-sanctions-against-russia-for-hacki
	Obama Expels 35 Diplomats, Imposes Retaliatory Sanctions Against Russia For Hacking

	December 29, 20164:08 PM ET

	President-elect Donald Trump responded. He said this. It's time for our country to move on to bigger and better things. Nevertheless, in the interest of our country and its great people, I will meet with leaders of the intelligence community next week in order to be updated on the facts of this situation.


https://www.rt.com/usa/372196-trump-reacts-russian-sanctions/
	The president-elect released a statement Thursday evening, saying that the country needs to “move on to bigger and better things.”

	“Nevertheless, in the interest of our country and its great people, I will meet with leaders of the intelligence community next week in order to be updated about the facts of this situation,” Trump continued.


he thought it was a hoax

Trump thinks, or decided to think, that the election rigging was a hoax, and the sanctions unwarranted

	“I think we ought to get on with our lives. I think that computers have complicated lives very greatly,” he said. “The whole age of computer has made it where nobody knows exactly what is going on. We have speed, we have a lot of other things, but I’m not sure we have the kind, the security we need.”


	...“If a future president decided he wanted to allow in a large tranche of Russian intelligence agents, presumably a future president could do that,” a senior administration official said on Thursday."The officials who were sanctioned were participating in malicious cyberattacks on U.S. critical infrastructure and interfering in our democratic process.  So, again, hypothetically you could reverse those sanctions, but it wouldn’t make a lot of sense."

	Along with implementing the new sanctions, Obama also expelled 35 Russian officials and closed Russian-owned compounds in New York and Maryland. The White House said that this was a retaliation for the harassment of US diplomats in Moscow. Although these accusations have no direct relation to hacking,  the administration "looked at this as a package."


ok so the 35 diplomats expelled was supposed to be for harrassing U.S. diplomats?


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trump-russia-hack_us_5869198ae4b0eb586489d96c
	01/01/2017 10:31 am 

	Donald Trump’s Press Secretary Won’t Say Whether Russia Was Behind The DNC Hack

	In an interview with Jonathan Karl on ABC’s “This Week,” Sean Spicer said multiple times that Trump intends to meet with intelligence officials to “get a full briefing on what they knew, why they knew it, whether or not the Obama administration’s response was in proportion to the actions taken.”

	“Maybe it was; maybe it wasn’t,” he said. “We need to have that briefing first.”


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/12/trump-russian-cyberattacks-intelligence-233045
	Trump: It's time 'to move on' from claims of Russian interference in election

	The president-elect also pledges to meet with leaders of the intelligence community 'to be updated on the facts.'

	By Nolan D. McCaskill

	12/29/2016

	Insisting it's time "to move on," President-elect Donald Trump said Thursday he will nonetheless meet next week with leaders of the intelligence community "to be updated on the facts" of alleged Russian cyberattacks.

	“It's time for our country to move on to bigger and better things,” he said in a statement. “Nevertheless, in the interest of our country and its great people, I will meet with leaders of the intelligence community next week in order to be updated on the facts of this situation.”

	...“If we’re gonna make such broad, sweeping claims about the involvement of anybody in the legitimacy of an election and the integrity of our election systems, then I think we need to have the intelligence community come forward publicly and on the record and make it clear exactly how this happened and who was responsible for it,” he told CNN.

	“Right now, we continue to get unsourced media accounts for what the activity is, and I think that’s not — that’s not acceptable,” he continued. “If truly there is someone to blame, then I think that we should have Congress notified, go through the appropriate congressional hearings, get the intelligence community — as they did in October — come out very publicly with the findings that they have.”


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-russia-idUSKBN14X1YX
	Politics | Mon Jan 23, 2017 | 2:10pm EST
	Trump adviser had five calls with Russian envoy on day of sanctions: sources

	The other two sources, however, said the timing of the calls raised a question about whether Flynn had given Kislyak any assurances to soothe Russian anger over the U.S. moves.

	If that were the case, it would have raised a possible entanglement with the Logan Act. The 1799 law bars unauthorized U.S. citizens from negotiating with foreign governments with which the United States has disputes. It is aimed at preventing the undermining of official U.S. government positions.



https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/russia-plans-retaliation-and-serious-discomfortoverus-hacking-sanctions/2016/12/30/4efd3650-ce12-11e6-85cd-e66532e35a44_story.html
	In a rare, and calculated, break from the diplomatic tradition of reciprocal punishment, Putin opted to do nothing after the United States said it would expel 35 Russian diplomats and close a pair of Russian-owned properties in retaliation for Moscow’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election.


http://dailycaller.com/2017/02/14/exclusive-defiant-flynn-insists-he-crossed-no-lines-leakers-must-be-prosecuted/
	Flynn said there was a brief discussion of the 35 Russian diplomats who were being expelled by Obama in retaliation for Moscow’s alleged interference in the 2016 campaign.

	“It wasn’t about sanctions. It was about the 35 guys who were thrown out,” Flynn said. “So that’s what it turned out to be. It was basically, ‘Look, I know this happened. We’ll review everything.’ I never said anything such as, ‘We’re going to review sanctions,’ or anything like that.”


But that's what the sanctions were about...

	The December conversation “was not to relieve sanctions. It was basically to say, ‘Look, we’re coming into office in a couple of weeks. Give us some time to take a look at everything.’”


but isn't that implying the sanctions might be relieved?



http://www.foxnews.com/world/2016/12/30/russia-suggests-expelling-35-american-diplomats-in-retaliation-to-obamas-sanctions.html
	Russia vows to retaliate after Obama approves sanctions, kicks out diplomats

	The Russian government unleashed a series of threats to retaliate Friday after President Barack Obama approved a series of punishing new sanctions against Moscow in connection to election-related hacking, kicking 35 intelligence operatives out of the U.S.

	Russia's foreign minister said his country could bar American diplomats from using their summer retreat on the outskirts of Moscow and a warehouse south of Moscow.

	Sergey Lavrov also revealed that his Foreign Ministry and other agencies suggested that President Vladimir Putin order the expulsion of 31 employees of the U.S. Embassy in Moscow and four from the U.S. Consulate in St. Petersburg. However, Putin said later Friday that wouldn't happen.



https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/814919370711461890?lang=en
	Great move on delay (by V. Putin) - I always knew he was very smart!
	11:41 AM - 30 Dec 2016 

	
------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/national-security-adviser-flynn-discussed-sanctions-with-russian-ambassador-despite-denials-officials-say/2017/02/09/f85b29d6-ee11-11e6-b4ff-ac2cf509efe5_story.html
	The talks were part of a series of contacts between Flynn and Kislyak that began before the Nov. 8 election and continued during the transition, officials said. In a recent interview, Kislyak confirmed that he had communicated with Flynn by text message, by phone and in person, but declined to say whether they had discussed sanctions.


so more than just the discussions that caused the controvsersy

	All of those officials said ­Flynn’s references to the election-related sanctions were explicit. Two of those officials went further, saying that Flynn urged Russia not to overreact to the penalties being imposed by President Barack Obama, making clear that the two sides would be in position to review the matter after Trump was sworn in as president.

	“Kislyak was left with the impression that the sanctions would be revisited at a later time,” said a former official.

so, discussing the election-related sanctions

	Former U.S. officials also said aggressive enforcement would probably discourage appropriate contact. Michael McFaul, who served as U.S. ambassador to Russia during the Obama administration, said that he was in Moscow meeting with officials in the weeks leading up to Obama’s 2008 election win.

	“As a former diplomat and U.S. government official, one needs to be able to have contact with foreigners to do one’s job,” McFaul said. McFaul, a Russia scholar, said he was careful never to signal pending policy changes before Obama took office.


sending in McFaul to cover for Flynn, apparently?

	Official concern about Flynn’s interactions with Kislyak was heightened when Putin declared on Dec. 30 that Moscow would not retaliate after the Obama administration announced a day earlier the expulsion of 35 suspected Russian spies and the forced closure of Russian-owned compounds in Maryland and New York.

	Instead, Putin said he would focus on “the restoration of ­Russia-United States relations” after Obama left office, and put off considering any retaliatory measures until Moscow had a chance to evaluate Trump’s policies.

	Trump responded with effusive praise for Putin. “Great move on the delay,” he said in a posting to his Twitter account. “I always knew he was very smart.”


so implying a deal to hold-off on retaliation

	Trump transition officials acknowledged those contacts weeks later after they were reported in The Washington Post but denied that sanctions were discussed. Trump press secretary Sean Spicer said Jan. 13 that Flynn had “reached out to” the Russian ambassador on Christmas Day to extend holiday greetings. On Dec. 28, as word of the Obama sanctions spread, Kislyak sent a message to Flynn requesting a call. “Flynn took that call,” Spicer said, adding that it “centered on the logistics of setting up a call with the president of Russia and [Trump] after the election.”


and set up a phone call with Trump?

	Flynn has frequently boasted that he was the first DIA director to be invited into the headquarters of Russia’s military intelligence directorate, known as the GRU, although at least one of his predecessors was granted similar access. “Flynn thought he developed some rapport with the GRU chief,” a former senior U.S. military official said.

	U.S. intelligence agencies say they have tied the GRU to Russia’s theft of troves of email messages from Democratic Party computer networks and accuse Moscow of then delivering those materials to the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks, which published them in phases during the campaign to hurt Hillary Clinton, Trump’s Democratic rival.


implying Flynn has something to do with Hillary Clinton's emails?


------

http://www.cnn.com/2016/12/29/politics/donald-trump-russian-sanctions-white-house-lisa-monaco-cnntv/index.html
	"I will tell you that even those who are sympathetic to President Obama on most issues are saying that part of the reason he did this today was to quote 'box in' President-elect Trump," Conway told CNN's Kate Bolduan on "OutFront." "That would be very unfortunate if politics were the motivating factor here. We can't help but think that's often true."

	She added: "That is not the way that peaceful exchanges work in this democracy."


hah, turns it around: Obama is trying to undermine Trump!

is this what Trump actually believed? Obama sanctions getting in the way of making his deals with Russia?


Anyway the problem with all this is that Trump was colluding with the Russians to make it easier for them to influence the U.S. election.


------

http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/312162-nearing-exit-obama-seeks-to-tie-trumps-hands
	Obama's decision Thursday to sanction Russian entities for election-related hacking is just the latest obstacle he has placed in Trump's way.

	Days before the sanctions were unveiled, the Obama administration allowed the U.N. Security Council to condemn Israeli settlement activity — something that could have an indelible impact on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

	Obama has also permanently banned oil and gas drilling across large swaths of the Atlantic and Arctic oceans, closed off 1.6 million acres of Western land to development and scrapped the last vestiges of a registration system used largely on Muslim immigrants.

	Those actions, as well as Obama’s claim that he could have won a third term, seem to have irked Trump and his associates as the transition period enters its final weeks. 

	Trump on Wednesday morning went on the attack against Obama.

	“Doing my best to disregard the many inflammatory President O statements and roadblocks,” he tweeted. “Thought it was going to be a smooth transition - NOT!” 


Obama do this on purpose? make Trump think it's all politically motivated, or give him a reason to say that as an excuse

some of his last-minute decisions were weird

------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/russia-plans-retaliation-and-serious-discomfortoverus-hacking-sanctions/2016/12/30/4efd3650-ce12-11e6-85cd-e66532e35a44_story.html
	The Kremlin will be looking to negotiate with the Trump White House over the role of NATO; the status of Crimea and the conflict in Ukraine; the war in Syria; and a host of other thorny issues that have led U.S.-Russian relations to their lowest ebb since the end of the Cold War. Perhaps most of all, Putin wants Russia to be treated as a great power that will have a seat at the table when major world decisions are being hammered out. 



------


http://www.cnbc.com/2017/02/16/click-for-a-full-transcript-of-trumps-first-solo-press-conference.html?view=story&%24DEVICE%24=native-android-mobile

	Trump: I fired him because of what he said to Mike Pence. Very simple. Mike was doing his job. He was calling countries, his counterparts, so it certainly would have been okay with me if he did it. I would have directed him to do it if I thought he was not doing it. I did not direct him, but I would have directed him because that's his job. It came out that way, and, in all fairness, I watched Dr. Charles Krauthammer the other night say, he was doing his job. And I agreed with him.

	Since then, I've watched many other people say that. You know, I didn't direct him, but I would have directed him if he did not do it, okay? Jim?


So Flynn calls up Kislyak, says we know about the 35 diplomats (and the retaliation that was being planned, you'd think?), hold off on it, and here let me set up a phone call between you and Trump. Putin backs off on retalliation, then Trump says "great move on the delay, I always knew Putin was smart!"

But Trump didn't know about it? is that right?


so that's obviously bullshit


and interesting that Pence apparently didn't know about the whole thing either, although he might have suspected. Trump might have been trying to hide his secret dealings from Pence?


-----


https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/global-opinions/2017/02/16/c109bd4a-f491-11e6-8d72-263470bf0401_story.html

more on the timeline by ignatius

	Here’s where the timeline gets intriguing: The White House said in a Dec. 29 conference call with reporters that Obama had informed Trump about the impending sanctions on Dec. 28, one of the days when Flynn communicated with Kislyak, according to the Trump team. (U.S. officials told me a call took place Dec. 29.) Hours after the expulsion was announced, Trump issued a bland statement: “It’s time for our country to move onto bigger and better things.”


So were there any other interesting conversations besides on the 29th? on the 28th I guess?


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/02/14/the-fall-of-michael-flynn-a-timeline/
	Aug. 9: Flynn signs a $600,000, 90-day contract with a company called Inovo BV aimed at discrediting a key opponent of the regime of Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

	...Nov. 8: An opinion piece written by Flynn runs in The Hill, focused on bolstering the Turkish government and criticizing Erdogan’s opponent.

kindof obvious? Flynn trying to shift blame to Turkey? make it look like he's a Turkish agent instead (I mean he literally is). Problem is he also made it look obvious he is a Russian agent.


	Dec. 28: At one point, White House press secretary Sean Spicer indicates that Flynn and Kislyak spoke Dec. 28, but later corrects the date.

	Dec. 29: Flynn places five phone calls to Kislyak. These calls were apparently on unsecured lines, and monitored by U.S. intelligence agencies. On the same day, Obama announces measures meant to punish Russia for its interference in the 2016 election.

	Dec. 30: Trump tweets praise for Vladimir Putin’s response to Obama.


what's up with the Dec 28 conversations?

	Jan. 13: Spicer tells reporters that there was one call between Kislyak and Flynn, during which the pair “exchanged logistical information” on setting up a call between Trump and President Vladimir Putin of Russia.

a call about sanctions? or implied as such?

	...Jan. 27: Yates and McGahn meet again at the White House.

	Spicer later says that McGahn subsequently reviewed the legality of Flynn’s actions, determining that no law was broken.


right, the "review"

	Feb. 1: Flynn makes an unusual appearance at the daily news briefing, declaring that the administration was putting Iran “on notice” for hostile actions.

what does this have to do with the rest?

I guess there's a question of how that would affect Trump firing Flynn? make him look weak on Iran or something?


------


https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/02/14/spicer_flynn_resignation_a_trust_issue_not_a_legal_issue_trump_proved_instinctively_correct.html
	When the president heard the information as presented by White House counsel, he instinctively thought that General Flynn did not do anything wrong and the White House counsel's review corroborated that. It is not ordinary for an incoming national security advisor to speak with his counterparts about the issues of concern to them. In fact, he spoke with over 30 of his counterparts throughout the transition. 


so Spicer says McGahn did a "review," perhaps of Yates' "underlying evidence," and found "it was not a legal issue."

Except their review missed that Flynn lied to the FBI, apparently?

	The irony of this entire situation is that the president has been incredibly tough on Russia. He continues to raise the issue of Crimea which the previous administration allowed to be seized by Russia. His ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, stood before the U.N. Security Council on her first day and strongly denounced the Russian occupation of Crimea. 


I wonder if Flynn discussed Crimea too, maybe packed in to some kind of sanctions deal


so would be interesting, if it turns out what Flynn talked about was actually making a Ukraine peace deal involving the Obama sanctions


could call up Putin and say "he don't worry we are going to get to sanctions later in our deals about Ukraine" or something like that. Idea I guess would be to make the USIC look bad, like the oppose a "legitmate" Trump policy because they "want war" or something

	President Trump has made it very clear he expects the Russian government to de-escalate violence in the Ukraine and return Crimea. At the same time, he fully expects to and wants to be able to get along with Russia, unlike previous administrations, so that we can solve many problems together facing the world such as the threat of ISIS and terrorism.


interesting Spicer brings this up


------


http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/10/politics/flynn-russia-us-sanctions-reports/index.html
	Those sources told CNN both Ukraine-related sanctions, and the set of sanctions related to Russia's cyber-meddling in the US election, are on the table for review, according to their discussions with Trump administration officials.

	The Kremlin denied Friday reports that Flynn discussed sanctions on Russia in recent discussions with Russia's ambassador to Washington.


did Flynn also discuss Ukraine sanctions?



https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/07/27/donald-trumps-falsehood-laden-press-conference-annotated/?utm_term=.82ce8d577177
	QUESTION: I would like to know if you became president, would you recognize (inaudible) Crimea as Russian territory? And also if the U.S. would lift sanctions that are (inaudible)?

	TRUMP: We'll be looking at that. Yeah, we'll be looking.


Trump planning it


http://www.independent.co.uk/news/people/henry-kissinger-russia-trump-crimea-advises-latest-ukraine-a7497646.html
	The report did not provide details, but claimed that “sources” said that Mr Kissinger was drawing up a “master plan” for Ukraine.


And this random tabloid thing saying it was a Kissinger idea


what about Flynn? he was a foreign policy advisor too, right?

------

http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/15/politics/trump-crimea-russia-twitter-obama/index.html
	Thu February 16, 2017

	The White House and the Kremlin have engaged in back-and-forth commentry over Crimea in recent days. Trump's Press Secretary Sean Spicer said Tuesday: "President Trump has made it very clear that he expects the Russian government to deescalate violence in the Ukraine and return Crimea."
On Wednesday morning, Russia's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said Russia would not return the territory.

	"Crimea is part of the Russian Federation," she told reporters. 


what was this all about? a bit after Flynn ouster

if Trump wanted to take a hard stance on Crimea, you'd think he'd arm Ukraine...

-------


http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/white-house-we-didn-t-coordinate-flynn-call-russian-ambassador-n706806


WH denies coordinating call, says Kislyak texted Flynn on the 28th to call the next day

but Spicer obviously lying, at least about the sanctions thing



http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-russia-idUSKBN14X1YX
	The calls occurred between the time the Russian embassy was told about U.S. sanctions and the announcement by Russian President Vladimir Putin that he had decided against reprisals, said the sources. They spoke on condition of anonymity, citing internal U.S. government deliberations about the issue.

	The calls raised fresh questions among some U.S. officials about contacts between Trump's advisers and Russian officials at a time when U.S. intelligence agencies contend that Moscow waged a multifaceted campaign of hacking and other actions to boost Republican Trump's election chances against Democrat Hillary Clinton.


why five? what was he doing between the calls?


------

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/michael-flynn-in-frequent-contact-with-russias-ambassador-to-u-s/
	During a phone call Friday morning, Trump transition spokesman Sean Spicer said that Flynn had contacted the Russia’s ambassador on Dec. 25 to wish him a Merry Christmas. Spicer also mentioned another contact on Dec. 28, which was the day before the sanctions were announced. He said that on Dec. 28, Flynn texted and called Kislyak to discuss the logistics of setting up a phone call between the president-elect and Russian President Vladimir Putin after Inauguration.

	An update published in the Washington Post, citing a Trump official, said Flynn spoke to Kislyak by phone before the sanctions were announced, and the conversation did not cover the sanctions. The Trump official later told the Post that Flynn expressed condolences to Kislyak over the assassination of the Russian ambassador to Turkey on Dec. 19 and then made a second call on Dec. 28 to express condolences for the crash of a Russian plane traveling to Syria and to set up the call with Putin.


wow, I remember that... they were going to blame that on the CIA, weren't they?



http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-12-25/russian-military-plane-crashes-killing-all-92-board-including-60-famous-red-army-cho
	A Russian military plane carrying 92 people, including dozens of Red Army Choir singers, dancers and orchestra members, crashed into the Black Sea shortly after takeoff from Sochi on its way to Syria on Sunday, killing everyone on board, Russian authorities said. Earlier, the Russian Defense Ministry said one of its TU-154 Tupolev planes had disappeared from radar screens at 0525 MSK (9.25 p.m. ET), two minutes after taking off from Sochi in southern Russia, where it had stopped to refuel from Moscow on route to Syria.


did they kill their own military band so they could blame it on the CIA?


they did say KGB and Russian military not always on same page...


was this after Obama admin promised secret retalliation?

"you won't even know it", that kind of thing? so they just use as license to attack themselves and blame on CIA


first comment:

	Mass_hysteria (not verified) Dec 25, 2016 9:21 AM

	You will pay for this America, Israhell, C.I.A & Mossad. The goy is waking up to your crimes against humanity. 


You will face judgement you evil bastards.


hmmm

http://www.newsweek.com/russia-outraged-charlie-hebdo-airplane-crash-cover-536856

what a fucking moron


something off about this--also incites Muslims too?

agent provocteaur?


get the sense KGB trying to split Russia and the rest of the world on purpose?

something to look into later
 

http://www.globalresearch.ca/cias-deputy-director-michael-morell-called-for-washington-to-deliver-a-painful-to-putin-blow-one-week-prior-to-ambassador-assassination/5564085
	CIA Former Deputy Director Called for Washington to Deliver a “Painful to Putin” Blow One Week Prior to Ambassador Assassination


but of course

	Six days prior to the assassination, the hawkish former Deputy Director of the CIA (who also served as the Acting Director twice), Michael Morell, called for the US to respond to alleged Russian meddling in the US election by retaliating in a way that was both “overt” and “painful to Putin.”


and it was this fucking guy
