http://uselessdissident.blogspot.com/2008/12/love-letter-to-america-part-two.html
	All warfare is based primarily on the deception of an enemy. Fighting on a battlefield is the most primitive way of making war. There is no art higher than to destroy your enemy without a fight—by SUBVERTING anything of value in the enemy’s country.

	Sun Tzu
	Chinese philosopher
	500 B.C.


	500 years before Christ, the Chinese military strategist Sun Tzu formulated the principle of subversion this way:

    1. Cover with ridicule all of the valid traditions in your opponent's country.
    2. Implicate their leaders in criminal affairs and turn them over to the scorn of their populace at the right time;
    3. Disrupt the work of their government by every means;
    4. Do not shun the aid of the lowest and most despicable individuals of your enemy's country.
    5. Spread disunity and dispute among the citizens.
    6. Turn the young against the old.
    7. Be generous with promises and rewards to collaborators and accomplices.


-------

http://changingminds.org/disciplines/warfare/art_war/sun_tzu_annotated.htm



-------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_warfare
	The history of political warfare can be traced to antiquity. The Chinese general and strategist Sun Tzu captures its essence in the ancient Chinese military strategy book, The Art of War: "So to win a hundred victories in a hundred battles is not the highest excellence; the highest excellence is to subdue the enemy's army without fighting at all...The expert in using the military subdues the enemy's forces without going to battle, takes the enemy's walled cities without launching an attack, and crushes the enemy's state without protracted war."



-------

https://warontherocks.com/2015/11/erdogans-art-of-political-warfare/

	"What is of supreme importance in war is to attack the enemy’s strategy” (Book III, #4)


Book 3?

------

https://books.google.com/books?id=h3By77UU4nIC&pg=PA151
	'Active measures' (aktivnye meropriiatia) against any opposition or would-be opposition are a key part of the new governing formula. Over and above the use of black PR and kompromat (see pages 70-1), or the cruder types of administration resources (legal deregistration, etc.), active measures proper involves the deployment of virtual objects or events created or staged by political technologists to weaken the opposition.

		...Divide and rule is one obvious ploy, but it has many local variants--as is indicated by the sheer number of specialist terms used in the post Soviet states.

	...political technologists can seek to alter the entire dynamic of the political system to work against the opposition, most often via artificial polarisation or so-called 'strategies of tension'.

	...Marat Gelman is right to say that many political tactics characteristic of the post-Soviet states are as old as the hills. The most obvious active measure is the traditional game of divide and rule.


https://www.foreignaffairs.com/reviews/capsule-review/2005-11-01/virtual-politics-faking-democracy-post-soviet-world


------

https://books.google.com/books?id=h3By77UU4nIC&pg=PA1&source=gbs_toc_r&cad=3#v=onepage&q&f=false
	The Okhrana developed the tradition of using not just informers (osvedomiteli), but also active agents (predateli or 'traitors') within opposition groups. Georgii Sudeikin, the head of the Special Section of the Police Department in the 1880s (himself assassinated in 1883), defined the role of Russian agents extremely broadly. As well as collecting information, they should 'generate suspicion and demoralization, thereby greatly retarding possible revolutionary activity', attempt the 'cultivation of quarrels and clashes amongst the revolutionary groups, the spreading of false rumours to intimidate the revolutionaries and instill a fear of betrayal and espionage: and [just to make things even more complex] the discrediting of revolutionary leaflets and organs by attributing them to police provocation'.


	...Zubatov's theory of 'police socialism' took theidea of controlling the opposition from within to new heights, with the shadow state now sponsering its pown political parties, student organisations and trade unions.


------


https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2013/07/how-putin-uses-money-laundering-charges-to-control-his-opponents/277903/
	But Magnitsky's conviction is not simply an example of the capricious nature of the legal system in Russia; it is a view into how the use of money laundering, financial laws, and Russia's financial intelligence unit are used to control political dissent.

	...But patronage is only one aspect of the tandem that underpins the stability of the Kremlin; the other is coercion. Supporters are kept in line through an implicit threat to throw them in jail and to seize their assets should their loyalty be called into question. The ability to provide financial incentives — through the acceptance of dubious business practices — acquires their support, the threat of jail and repossessing their assets ensures it. A silent agreement between Putin and business elites was reached in the aftermath of Yukos CEO Mikhail Khodorkovsky being thrown into jail in 2003 for attempting to challenge Putin politically (Khodorkovsky was also charged with additional money laundering and fraud charges in 2010 as he was nearing the end of his first sentence). As William Partlett of Columbia University and the Brooking’s Institute said about the incident, “The message to other oligarchs was clear: follow the rules or face devastating legal consequences.”


Use the legal system to blackmail people... Comey do the same? Bharara?

would be interesting, blackmail Stewart, others

Patricof? they would have his financial information


With Clinton seems different, wanted to attack legal system itself, create a scandal

are they blackmailing her now?


------


http://commons.lib.jmu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1016&context=mhr
The double life o
f the 
sotrudniki
forced them deep into their roles as enemies of the tsar 
and put them in a volatile position of power with little to no accountability.  While they might be 
monitored early on, it was nearly impossible to keep tabs on them at all time and 
they were for 
the most part left alone by their superiors while undercover.
18
Borgrov, rising higher in the ranks 
of the anarchists, was given more information (and thus more power), which he often withheld 
from the police; other times he reported fully an
d had his friends arrested.
19
This process, called 
the “false pose” made the 
sotrudniki
feel as if he was independent of both police and 
revolutionaries and able to control the outcome of events.  Bogrov, like many secret agents, 
became lost in this provoc
ation.  By 1909 he was already planning the assassination of former 
Prime Minister Stolypin, creating false terrorists and suspects to divert his police superiors.
20
Two years later on the night of September 2
nd
, 1911 Borgrov fatally shot the man during 
in
termission at the Kiev Opera House
.  
Historian Charles Ruud and Sergei Stepanov dismiss the 
idea that Borgrov, a Jew, was retaliating for Stolypin’s apparent anti
-
Semitic Russian 
nationalism; instead, he was a “frightened 
provocateur
who was unable to extr
icate himself from 
his dual roles as police agent and a Socialist Revolutionary terrorist and finally lashed out at his 
main tormentor, the government.”
21
There is no evidence to the contrary that proves Borgrov’s 
motives were rooted in revenge.
22
His life
, caught between lines of blurring loyalty, was shared 
by many 
sotrudniki
; but retribution would prove a crucial drive for Russia’s most
infamous
double agent, Evno Azef, a man who must be mentioned in any discussion on provocation.  


This doesn't sound right


or maybe kindof?

I think the Okhrana wanted him assassinated

article is off

Matthew Landis
Villanova University



