https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/global-opinions/obamas-syria-plan-teams-up-american-and-russian-forces/2016/07/13/8d7777cc-4935-11e6-acbc-4d4870a079da_story.html
	Even in the best-case scenario, where Russia and Syria hold up their end of the bargain, the result could be major advances for the Assad regime. While Jabhat al-Nusra is a problem, teaming up with the Russian air force might not be the best solution.


https://www.rt.com/op-edge/351310-obama-offer-russian-cooperation-syria/
 	Is Obama ‘offer’ for Russian cooperation in Syria too good to be true? 


I don't get why they did this


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/us-offers-to-share-syria-intelligence-on-terrorists-with-russia/2016/06/30/483a2afe-3eec-11e6-84e8-1580c7db5275_story.html
	 By Karen DeYoung June 30, 2016

	The Obama administration has offered to help Russia improve its targeting of terrorist groups in Syria if Moscow will stop bombing civilians and opposition fighters who have signed on to a cease-fire and use its influence to force Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to do the same.

	The offer early this week of what one administration official called “enhanced information sharing” does not include joint military planning, targeting or coordination with U.S. airstrikes or other operations in Syria.

	But it would expand cooperation beyond the “deconfliction” talks the U.S. and Russian militaries began last year to ensure their planes do not run into each other in Syria’s increasingly crowded airspace.

	...Kerry and other U.S. officials have remained in close contact with their Russian counterparts, trying out a series of possible initiatives to revitalize the cease-fire, including the new offer of increased intelligence sharing on terrorist positions. Kerry is “fixated” on the Syria issue, “and he will stay so,” Kirby said.

	...While President Obama has steadily increased U.S. attacks against the Islamic State in Syria, he has rejected entreaties for more direct involvement in the civil war, saying that he does not see how it would improve the situation.

	But Obama has blessed efforts to persuade Russia to change its policies, including the intelligence offer.


Obama a Soviet agent?


	...“However, we consider unacceptable the approach on the part of the American establishment, which believes that they can decide in what issues they will cooperate with us,” Putin said.


what


------


http://freebeacon.com/national-security/top-military-officer-bad-idea-share-intelligence-russians-syria/
	Top Military Officer: Bad Idea to Share Syria Intelligence With Russians

	Gen. Joseph Dunford, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Thursday that it would be a bad idea to share intelligence with Russia on the conflict in Syria.


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-mideast-crisis-syria-pentagon-idUSKCN11S1PC
	The text of one of several related documents, published on Thursday by the State Department, said both countries would "share intelligence and develop actionable targets for military action" against the al Qaeda-linked group formerly known as Nusra Front.

	It also called for "independent but synchronized efforts" in the fight against Islamic State.

	But Marine General Joseph Dunford, the chairman of the U.S. military's Joint Chiefs of Staff, suggested any such military coordination at a so-called "joint integration cell" would be extremely limited. The military, he said, had no intention of forging an intelligence sharing arrangement with Russia.

	"I do not believe it would be a good idea to share intelligence with the Russians," he told the Senate Armed Services Committee, without elaborating. 


------


http://www.businessinsider.com/john-kerry-us-russia-syria-cooperation-plan-questioned-2016-7
	Several U.S. military and intelligence officials called the plan naive, and said Kerry risks falling into a trap that Russian President Vladimir Putin has laid to discredit the United States with moderate rebel groups and drive some of their fighters into the arms of Islamic State and other extremist groups.

	Some European members of the coalition against Islamic State forces have expressed concern about sharing intelligence with Russia, which they say has been an untrustworthy partner in Syria.


------

http://www.timesofisrael.com/russia-mossad-other-foreign-agents-killed-in-aleppo-strike/
	According to the Arabic-language version of Russia’s Sputnik news agency, some “30 Israeli and Western officers” died when they were hit by three Kalibr cruise missiles fired by Russian warships in a “foreign officers’ coordination operations room” in western Aleppo, near Mount Simeon.

	In addition to the Mossad agents, the Russian report claimed, military officials from the United States, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom and Turkey — virtually every country hated by Iran, Syria and Russia — were killed in the strike, according to “battlefield sources.”


what was up with that?


Russia trying to convince arabic-speaking people that Russia is taking out U.S. and Mossad?


did such a strike actually happen? who was killed?


http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13950631000607
	30 Israeli, Foreign Intelligence Officers Killed in Russia's Caliber Missile Attack in Aleppo

	"The Russian warships fired three Caliber missiles at the foreign officers' coordination operations room in Dar Ezza region in the Western part of Aleppo near Sam'an mountain, killing 30 Israeli and western officers," the Arabic-language service of Russia's Sputnik news agency quoted battlefield source in Aleppo as saying on Wednesday.

	The operations room was located in the Western part of Aleppo province in the middle of sky-high Sam'an mountain and old caves. The region is deep into a chain of mountains.

	Several US, Turkish, Saudi, Qatari and British officers were also killed along with the Israeli officers. The foreign officers who were killed in the Aleppo operations room were directing the terrorists' attacks in Aleppo and Idlib.


So was this completely made up or did they actually launch missiles at a secret operations room?


https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2016/9/25/1574084/-UPDATE-US-and-Russia-have-been-at-war-in-Syria-since-Tuesday-Pravda-confirms-reports
	These reports indicate that the US and Russia have initiated direct military conflict inside Syria with casualties to the other side in what has until now publicly been a proxy war. 

	There has thus far been no official confirmation by other major state or private news services.   This reported incident follows a series of strikes that started last week with the US bombing of a Syrian military base in Eastern Syria which was followed by a Russian or Syrian airstrike on a UN aid convoy near Aleppo hours after announcements on all sides that a short-lived countrywide ceasefire was terminated.

	This is not the first time that there have been foreign military casualties inside Syria.  On several occasions, the Israelis have targeted command posts with missiles reportedly killing ranking Iranian officers and Hezbollah military commanders in southern Syria, including an Iranian General in January.  

	In February, it was reported that opposition units had used US supplied TOW missiles to kill several Russian officers in coastal Latekia Province.  www.thedailybeast.com/...

	As of August 2016, there have been 20 officially confirmed Russian Armed Forces fatalities in the Syrian war. en.wikipedia.org/...

	Meanwhile, the Military Times has acknowledged four non-fatal combat injuries to 300 Special Forces troops known to be inside Syria.  www.militarytimes.com/... It is unknown if or how many CIA or other nonuniformed US personnel have been previously killed.

	This, however, marks the first known incident where US and Russians have directly inflicted casualties on each other in Syria.  This seems unlikely to be the last.


completely batshit reporting on this


guy sounds like a Russian? trying to say the strike was justified somehow


http://www.globalresearch.ca/u-s-coalition-intelligence-operations-room-inside-syria-destroyed-by-russian-missile-attack-thirty-israeli-american-british-turkish-saudi-qatari-intelligence-officials-killed-report/5547099


same story on Russian fake news

	The Fars report conveys the impression that the Operations Room was largely integrated by Israelis. In all likelihood, the US was “calling the shots” and the facility was coordinated by Washington’s regional allies, in close liaison with (and on behalf) of the US military and intelligence apparatus.

	With the exception of the Fars report and Sputnik Arabic, this Russian attack directed against a US-led coalition intelligence facility has not made the headlines. In fact there has been a total news blackout. The accuracy of the Fars report is yet to be fully ascertained.

	What is significant is that the Operations Room situated in rebel held territory in the Aleppo region is manned by the main state sponsors of ISIS Daesh and Al Qaeda inside Syria, namely the US, UK (largely involved in the air raids), plus four countries of the region: Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Israel and Qatar. The respective roles of the four regional countries relating to recruitment, training, logistics and the financing of terrorism have been amply documented.


strange


U.S. news doesn't report on it at all?


http://www.pravdareport.com/video/23-09-2016/135692-syria-0/
	According to the Fars, personnel of the intelligence services was involved in the US Air Forces' attack on the Syrian forces, which was carried out just after armistice agreements had been reached in Geneva.


they make it sounds like a tit-for-tat


https://www.liveleak.com/view?i=d24_1474768144


more of Pravda reporting on it?


So why would Russian propaganda want to report this? I guess covering it up would look worse?


I guess if Obama gave the Russians the location after all his generals warned him not to Putin is free to bomb them all he wants and blackmail Obama for giving him the intel in the first place?


------


Report by timesofisreal is interesting 


http://www.timesofisrael.com/russia-mossad-other-foreign-agents-killed-in-aleppo-strike/
	September 22, 2016

	More than 300,000 people have been killed since Syria’s conflict erupted in March 2011 with protests calling for the ouster of President Bashar Assad.

	There was meant to be a halt to the fighting around Aleppo, beginning on September 13. Despite several alleged breaches, the truce had led to calm in the city, and last week, the Syrian army announced that it would observe a freeze on fighting until midnight on September 19.

	Once the Arab country’s largest city, Aleppo has been a horrific battleground since 2012, divided between government- and rebel-held areas. Over the summer, the 250,000 people living in the opposition districts endured more than 40 days under complete blockade after government forces captured all roads out of the area.

	Rebel reinforcements broke a hole in the blockade in August. But in heavy bombardment over the following weeks, more than 700 civilians were killed. Syrian troops backed by Russian airstrikes retook the roads and clamped the siege back on. Then the truce came into effect, sealing both sides’ positions in place.


So Judah Ari Gross points out that the ceasefire helped cement Russian gains in Syria


kindof like the ceasefire in China with Marshall and Chaing Kai-sheck?


call for a ceasfire when you want to consolidate gains and re-group


If this was important for them it might have been worth burning political capital for Obama to implement it


but anyway maybe this is part of a kind of arguement? like Mossad and U.S. saying Russia cheated with the ceasfire timing, firing back on Pravda accusing them of breaking ceasfire, which apparently they think somehow justifies lobbying a missile into an operations room and killing 30 intelligence officers


https://twitter.com/JudahAriGross?ref_src=twsrc^google|twcamp^serp|twgr^author
	Military correspondent for @timesofisrael. A Terp, specifically a @merrillcollege Terp. Sometimes I take pictures. RTs mean, 'Huh. That's interesting.'


https://twitter.com/MiriamElder/status/884491173678780419
	The US military has received NO guidance on how to enforce supposed Syria ceasefire agreed with Russia


Gross concerned about this? I guess I could see why...



https://twitter.com/GlennThrush/status/879178024637386752
Gross RTs Glenn Thrush a few times 


https://twitter.com/BenjaminSales/status/879511588725829633
	Trump is more popular than Obama in only two countries: Russia and Israel. 


interesting


https://twitter.com/ColinKahl/status/871144742213603330

RTs this, apparently not a fan of Trump?


https://twitter.com/JudahAriGross/status/879390894956445696
https://twitter.com/JudahAriGross/status/879397617716920320
	... SO FEEL FREE TO COME BUT SHUT THE FUCK UP ABOUT IT AND MAYBE DON'T ACT TOO JEWY EITHER LEST WE ALL BE TRIGGERED 


something wrong with him?


hmmm


don't think he's affiliated with any intelligence agency?



https://twitter.com/hesthesenate/status/872027595214401536

RT some 4chan meme account?

mostly tweets about Star Wars, gibberish


maybe he's with Mossad or something and they're very good

nobody would suspect this ultra pro-Isreal guy posting nonsensical memes of being an Isreali intleligence officer


although Russian agents also post nonsensicle memes constantly


------


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/10/world/middleeast/syria-john-kerry-ceasefire-deal-russia.html
	Russia and the United States Reach New Agreement on Syria Conflict

	By DAVID E. SANGER and ANNE BARNARDSEPT. 9, 2016 

	...The accord was reached after sharp divisions inside the Obama administration over the wisdom of sharing targeting information with Russia, and accusations that the Russians have used the negotiating period to help Mr. Assad regain control in Aleppo and strike at American-backed opposition groups.

	...Among the Syrians, the latest plan was greeted with wariness, particularly from armed opposition groups and their supporters, who, broadly speaking, have come to believe that the United States has lost interest in ousting Mr. Assad, and is willing to see them wiped out.

	...Armed opposition groups read the deal as ordering them to remove better-armed Nusra fighters from their areas, something they lack the military power to do alone, or else face attack by the United States — a country that has provided some of the rebel groups with training and weapons for years.

	Some government opponents noted that the deal came hours after Syrian military forces — with Russian air support — re-established their siege of the rebel-held sections of Aleppo.



--------


https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/09/30/world/middleeast/john-kerry-syria-audio.html
	By ANNE BARNARD SEPT. 30, 2016

	...The 40-minute discussion, on the sidelines of last week’s United Nations General Assembly in New York, provides a glimpse of Mr. Kerry’s frustration with his inability to end the Syrian crisis. He veered between voicing sympathy for the Syrians’ frustration with United States policy and trying to justify it.

	The conversation took place days after a brief cease-fire he had spearheaded crumbled, and as his Russian counterpart rejected outright his new proposal to stop the bombing of Aleppo. Those setbacks were followed by days of crippling Russian and Syrian airstrikes in Aleppo that the World Health Organization said Wednesday had killed 338 people, including 100 children.


-------

http://abcnews.go.com/International/john-kerry-makes-impassioned-plea-united-nations-syria/story?id=42251137
	 "On Monday, 20 aid workers were killed in an outrageous, sustained, two-hour attack directed at a fully authorized humanitarian mission near Aleppo — fully authorized," Kerry told the Security Council this morning. "All of the permits had been given. Everybody was on notice."

	U.S. officials believe Russian aircraft, not Syrian, were responsible for the strike but have yet to publicly accuse Moscow. Yesterday the White House said it could have been only Russians or the Syrian regime and that either way, Russia is accountable for the strikes, given its leverage over Syria and its commitments under the cease-fire.

	In spite of all this, rather than abandon the cease-fire, Kerry today urged the Syrian regime to adhere to its terms, calling for the grounding of all regime aircraft.

	"Our purpose in this negotiation was to put an end to the kind of horrific and indiscriminate attacks that have been the primary cause of fear, of suffering, of displacement," Kerry said. "And under our plan, all of this could be quickly accompanied by serious negotiations between the parties, aimed at a political transition and a conclusion to the conflict." 


------


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/15/world/middleeast/john-kerry-vladimir-putin-syria-plan.html
	John Kerry Meets Vladimir Putin to Discuss New Syria Plan

	By GARDINER HARRIS and ANNE BARNARD JULY 14, 2016

	...Both men said they were hopeful of reaching an accord. “I hope after today’s consultations you’ll be able to advise him of the progress made and possible headway for us to make,” Mr. Putin said, referring to conversations between Mr. Kerry and President Obama. Mr. Kerry responded: “Hopefully, we’ll be able to make some genuine progress that is measurable and implementable and that can make a difference in the course of events in Syria.”

	The proposed agreement calls for the creation of a joint military command center staffed by military and intelligence officers who would share information so as to permit “integrated operations.” It has generated deep unease at the Pentagon and in some quarters of the State Department, where it is seen as too conciliatory to both the Russians and the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad.


	...The proposed agreement with the Russians, first reported by The Washington Post, would create a joint command center in or near Amman, Jordan, to coordinate an intensified bombing campaign against the two militant groups. Both Russia and the United States have been attacking the Islamic State, though acting separately, with minimal coordination to avoid unintended conflict between their warplanes. Yet most of Russia’s airstrikes have been aimed not at the Islamic State but at other groups fighting Mr. Assad, including the Nusra Front and American-backed rebel groups.

	The Nusra Front has been one of the most effective anti-Assad forces, and because of that United States-backed rebel groups often coordinate their activities with its units. Russia has argued that means that Washington is effectively supporting Nusra, and that the American-backed groups are legitimate targets. So a joint campaign against Nusra would not only appear to concede Russia’s point, but could also bring American firepower to bear against the strongest anti-Assad military force and a sometime partner of Washington’s allies.


So the agreement helps tip scales for Assad


------


http://www.jpost.com/Diplomacy-and-Politics/Kerry-US-Russia-want-Syria-peace-conference-soon-318429
	Kerry: US, Russia want Syria peace parley 'soon'
	ByREUTERS
	July 2, 2013

	US Secretary of State John Kerry said on Tuesday that he and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov had made progress on plans to hold a Syria peace conference and that both sides had agreed it should be held soon.


What was Kerry up to here


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/middle_east/russia-and-syria-blame-us-led-coalition-for-deadly-strike-on-syrian-troops/2016/09/17/8dabf5d6-7d03-11e6-8064-c1ddc8a724bb_story.html
	U.S. admits carrying out airstrike that Russia says killed 62 Syrian soldiers 

	 By Karen DeYoung and Thomas Gibbons-Neff September 17, 2016

	The U.S.-Russia deal to bring peace to Syria seemed near collapse late Saturday, as the two countries publicly accused each other of double-dealing and atrocities in the wake of an apparently mistaken U.S. airstrike that killed dozens of Syrian soldiers.

	The U.S. Central Command acknowledged the strike, in eastern Syria’s Deir al-Zour province, saying it was “halted immediately” when U.S. forces were informed by Russia “that it was possible the personnel and vehicles targeted were part of the Syrian military.” Central Command said the intended target had been Islamic State forces in the area.

	A U.S. Defense official said the strike “appears to be an intelligence failure.”


intelligence "sharing" have anything to do with this?


------

http://www.reuters.com/article/us-mideast-crisis-syria-idlib-idUSKCN10D0OZ?feedType=RSS&feedName=topNews&utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=Social
	August 2, 2016 / 8:31 AM / a year ago
	Rescuers say toxic gas dropped on Syrian town where Russian helicopter shot down

	BEIRUT (Reuters) - A Syrian rescue service operating in rebel-held territory said on Tuesday a helicopter dropped containers of toxic gas overnight on a town close to where a Russian military helicopter had been shot down hours earlier.

	The opposition Syrian National Coalition (SNC) accused President Bashar al-Assad of being behind the attack. Assad has denied previous accusations of using chemical weapons.

	A spokesman for the Syria Civil Defence said 33 people, mostly women and children, were affected by the gas, which they suspect was chlorine, in Saraqeb, in rebel-held Idlib province.

	The group, which describes itself as a neutral band of search and rescue volunteers, posted a video on YouTube apparently showing a number of men struggling to breathe and being given oxygen masks by people in civil defense uniforms.

	"Medium-sized barrels fell containing toxic gases. The Syrian Civil Defence was not able to determine the type of the gas," said the spokesman. 

	The Syrian government and its Russian allies were not immediately available for comment. 


have anything to do with the Russian helicopter shot down?
