The Taliban are a terrorist organization that have gone relatively unnoticed in the media for the past few years. This is not for lack of activity by them and their affiliates, which will be the subject of most of this letter.

The Taliban are known for their deep ties to al-Qaeda, of 9/11 fame:  


https://web.archive.org/web/20031016065512/http://www.number-10.gov.uk/output/page3682.asp
	Usama Bin Laden's Al Qaida and the Taleban regimee have a close and mutually dependent alliance. Usama Bin Laden and Al Qaida provide the Taleban regime with material, financial and military support. They jointly exploit the drugs trade. The Taleban regime allows Bin Laden to operate his terrorist training camps and activities from Afghanistan, protects him from attacks from outside, and protects the drugs stockpiles. Usama Bin Laden could not operate his terrorist activities without the alliance and support of the Taleban regime. The Taleban's strength would be seriously weakened without Usama Bin Laden's military and financial support.

	...Omar has provided Bin Laden with a safe haven in which to operate, and has allowed him to establish terrorist training camps in Afghanistan. They jointly exploit the Afghan drugs trade. In return for active Al Qaida support, the Taleban allow Al Qaida to operate freely, including planning, training and preparing for terrorist activity. In addition the Taleban provide security for the stockpiles of drugs.

	...Since 1996, when the Taleban captured Kabul, the United States government has consistently raised with them a whole range of issues, including humanitarian aid and terrorism. Well before 11 September 2001 they had provided evidence to the Taleban of the responsibility of Al Qaida for the terrorist attacks in East Africa. This evidence had been provided to senior leaders of the Taleban at their request.

	...The United States government had made it clear to the Taleban regime that Al Qaida had murdered US citizens, and planned to murder more. The US offered to work with the Taleban to expel the terrorists from Afghanistan. These talks, which have been continuing since 1996, have failed to produce any results.

	In June 2001, in the face of mounting evidence of the Al Qaida threat, the United States warned the Taleban that it had the right to defend itself and that it would hold the regime responsible for attacks against US citizens by terrorists sheltered in Afghanistan.

	In this, the United States had the support of the United Nations. The Security Council, in Resolution 1267, condemned Usama Bin Laden for sponsoring international terrorism and operating a network of terrorist camps, and demanded that the Taleban surrender Usama Bin Laden without further delay so that he could be brought to justice.

	Despite the evidence provided by the US of the responsibility of Usama Bin Laden and Al Qaida for the 1998 East Africa bombings, despite the accurately perceived threats of further atrocities, and despite the demands of the United Nations, the Taleban regime responded by saying no evidence existed against Usama Bin Laden, and that neither he nor his network would be expelled.

	...Since 11 September we have learned that one of Bin Laden's closest and most senior associates was responsible for the detailed planning of the attacks.

	...We have learned, subsequent to 11 September, that Bin Laden himself asserted shortly before 11 September that he was preparing a major attack on America.

	In August and early September close associates of Bin Laden were warned to return to Afghanistan from other parts of the world by 10 September.

	Immediately prior to 11 September some known associates of Bin Laden were naming the date for action as on or around 11 September.

	A senior associate claimed to have trained some of the hijackers in Afghanistan.

	There is evidence of a very specific nature relating to the guilt of Bin Laden and his associates that is too sensitive to release.



These ties persist to this day:



http://www.reuters.com/article/us-afghanistan-taliban-qaeda-idUSKCN0QI1FO20150813
	DUBAI (Reuters) - Al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri, in an online audio message, pledged allegiance to the new head of the Afghan Taliban in a move that could bolster his accession after the death of Taliban founder Mullah Mohammad Omar. 

	"We pledge our allegiance ... (to the) commander of the faithful, Mullah Mohammad Akhtar Mansour, may God protect him," said Ayman al-Zawahiri, believed to be hiding in a border area between Afghanistan and Pakistan that is a militant bastion. 

	...Al Qaeda was set up by Arab guerrillas who flocked to Afghanistan to fight Soviet occupation forces in the 1980s. It thrived under the Taliban's 1996-2001 rule in Afghanistan before the U.S. invasion that followed Al Qaeda's Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on New York and Washington drove both groups underground. 


http://www.cnn.com/2016/04/13/middleeast/afghanistan-al-qaeda/index.html
	Al Qaeda 'very active' in Afghanistan: U.S. Commander

	..."They are really very active. They are working in quiet and reorganizing themselves and preparing themselves for bigger attacks," he said.

	"They are working behind other networks, giving them support and the experience they had in different places. And double their resources and recruitment and other things. That is how -- they are not talking too much. They are not making press statements. It is a big threat." 


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-35169478
	The emergence of so-called Islamic State (IS) also brought the Taliban and al-Qaeda closer, as never before, by challenging the legitimacy of both groups. 

	Although the priorities and strategies of the Taliban and al-Qaeda are different, the two groups have been helping each other in Afghanistan, while IS has tried to undermine both groups.

	The al-Qaeda leader, Ayman Al-Zawahiri, renewed his pledge of allegiance to the Taliban's new leadership and accepted the authority of the Taliban leader Mullah Akhtar Mansour, in August 2015 and called on all jihadists (Islamist militant groups) to do the same.



Life for many has been brutal under the rule of the Taliban, who have carried out several attacks on civilians in Afghan government territory and their own in recent years:



https://www.infoplease.com/timeline-taliban-2
	Taliban members shoot 14-year-old Malala Yousafzai in the head and neck. She was targeted for promoting Western ideas, including the education of women. The shooting occurred while Yousafzai was on her way home on a school bus filled with children. Two other girls are wounded.

	...The Taliban attacked the Army Public School and Degree College in Peshawar, in northwest Pakistan. At least 145 people are killed in the siege, including more than 100 children. It is the most brazen and deadly attack by the Taliban in years. A Taliban spokesman said the attack was in retaliation for the military's offensive against militant hideouts in North Waziristan.

	...The Taliban attacked the Nation Assembly in Kabul on the same day that lawmakers were going to review a new defense minister. A car bomb exploded killing a mother and child, and wounding 28 others. The Taliban then tried to gain access to the building with RPGs and assault rifles but were killed by Afghan forces.

	...August 7, 2015, saw a series of Taliban attacks. First, a truck carrying explosive was detonated at the edge of an army base; 15 people were killed. Then a gunman attacked a NATO base, Camp Integrity, which holds U.S. special forces; 11 people were killed. Later that day at the Kabul police academy a suicide bomber blew himself up; this attack killed 20 people.

	...On August 10, five people were killed in an attack at the international airport in Kabul. A suicide bomber blew himself up near a checkpoint entrance to the airport. 16 were injured.


http://edition.cnn.com/2015/12/09/middleeast/afghanistan-airport-attack/
	Kabul, Afghanistan (CNN) Fifty people have died in an attack at a market bazaar and a school near Kandahar airport that began late Tuesday, Afghan officials said.

	The number included 38 civilians, 10 Afghan National Army soldiers and two policemen, the Afghan Defense Ministry said in a statement Thursday.

	Another 35 people were wounded.

	Nine terrorists were also killed, the ministry said. And one was wounded.

	The Taliban took responsibility for the attack.


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/20/world/asia/kabul-explosion-afghanistan.html
	KABUL, Afghanistan — Even in a year when violence across Afghanistan did not relent over the winter months, the Taliban marked the official start of the spring fighting season with a huge truck bomb in the heart of Kabul on Tuesday.

	Beyond the all-too-familiar carnage — at least 30 dead and more than 300 wounded — it also sent a message: The Taliban can attack the capital at will, and they have no intention of engaging in peace talks despite reports of internal rifts.

	The location of the bombing, near the compound of an elite force that provides protection to senior Afghan officials, also demonstrated how vulnerable the government remains.

	The Taliban have stretched Afghan security forces thin throughout the country, with fighting raging across multiple provinces. But complex urban attacks remain crucial to the insurgency because they bring what even major battlefield gains in remote areas of the country cannot: headlines, and a disruption of daily life that increases pressure on a coalition government already struggling with infighting and stagnation.

	Security forces in Kabul have been on high alert since the Taliban announced their annual spring offensive last week, amid reports that suicide bombers had entered the city and were planning attacks.

	As is often the case, most of the casualties in Tuesday’s assault were civilians, Afghan officials said. The United Nations, which recently said civilians had continued to suffer at record levels in the first quarter of this year, issued a strong denunciation of the attack.

	“The use of high explosives in civilian populated areas, in circumstances almost certain to cause immense suffering to civilians, may amount to war crimes,” said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the secretary general’s deputy special representative for Afghanistan.

	The Taliban’s urban attacks follow a similar pattern: After a vehicle-borne explosion creates chaos, militants with weapons and suicide vests storm their target and engage the police or special forces.


https://www.hrw.org/news/2016/02/17/afghanistan-taliban-child-soldier-recruitment-surges
	Afghanistan: Taliban Child Soldier Recruitment Surges

	Children Trained in Madrasas to Fight, Plant IEDs

	Taliban forces in Afghanistan have added scores of children to their ranks since mid-2015 in violation of the international prohibition on the use of child soldiers, Human Rights Watch said today.

	New Human Rights Watch research shows that the Taliban have been training and deploying children for various military operations including the production and planting of improvised explosive devices (IED). In Kunduz province, the Taliban have increasingly used madrasas, or Islamic religious schools, to provide military training to children between the ages of 13 and 17, many of whom have been deployed in combat.


http://www.latimes.com/sports/sportsnow/la-sp-sn-afghan-boy-autographed-lionel-messi-jersey-20160503-story.html
	Young Murtaza Ahmadi is still a huge fan of soccer superstar Lionel Messi.

	"Messi, you know how much I like you," the 5-year-old originally from Afghanistan told the BBC. "Now I want you to invite me so I can come and meet you."

	That might be one of the few things that hasn't changed for the boy since he gained international fame after being photographed wearing a homemade Messi jersey and then receiving an authentic, autographed version of the shirt from his idol earlier this year.

	His father, Mohammad Arif Ahmadi, said he and his family were forced to move from their home in the province of Ghazni to the city of Quetta in neighboring Pakistan because of constant threats.

	"A few days ago I got a call from a local gangster," the father told the BBC. "He thought that since my son had received these T-shirts from Messi that maybe he also got money and asked for his share."

	He told the Associated Press about a letter he says was from the Taliban: “In the letter, the Taliban asked why my son was not learning the Koran in an Islamic school and why I was instead allowing him and encouraging him to play soccer."

	Men's soccer was not one of the sports banned by the Taliban during its 1996-2001 reign in Afghanistan, although it did use the main Kabul soccer stadium as a stage for public executions.

	Eventually, Mohammad Arif Ahmadi said, the family sold all of their belongings and left their home for a safer place to live. “Life became a misery for us,” he said.

	Now living in another country and in one room with seven other family members, Murtaza Ahmadi's enthusiasm toward a certain soccer player doesn't seem to have faded one bit.

	“Still, Murtaza hopes that one day he would be able to meet his hero, Messi,” his father said.



Currently, the tides have been turning in the Taliban's favor for the war in Afghanistan, who's ranks have been bolstered by the flood of militants into the country:



http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-35169478
	The Afghan government and its US and Nato allies have been fighting the Taliban in Afghanistan for the past 14 years.

	But, despite the killing of thousands of militants, the insurgent group has retaken big chunks of the country.

	There are three main reasons for this resurgence.

	First, the end, in 2014, of the US and Nato combat mission and the withdrawal of most foreign forces from Afghanistan reduced the risk the Taliban faced of being bombed and raided.

	The group was further emboldened by the comparative lack of interest from the international community and the diversion of its attention to crisis in other parts of the world, such as Syria, Iraq and Ukraine.


	...Secondly, the Pakistani military's Operation Zarb-e-Azb, launched in the North Waziristan tribal area in June 2014, dislodged thousands of mainly Uzbek, Arab and Pakistani militants, who flooded into Afghanistan and swelled the Taliban's ranks.

	The Taliban also reportedly moved a big number of their own fighters from Pakistan. 


http://www.foxnews.com/world/2012/01/02/al-qaeda-taliban-call-on-pakistani-militants-to-join-clashes-in-afghanistan.html
	Al Qaeda, Taliban Call on Pakistani Militants to Join Clashes in Afghanistan

	DERA ISMAIL KHAN, Pakistan –  Prominent Al Qaeda and Afghan Taliban fighters asked Pakistani militants in a pair of rare meetings to set aside their differences and step up support for the battle against U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan, militant commanders said Monday.


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-35169478
	And finally, although the Afghan security forces have fought well against the insurgents over the past year, they lack certain capabilities and equipment especially air power and reconnaissance.

	The political infighting in the central government in Kabul and the apparent weakness in governance at different levels is also exploited by the Taliban.
	
	Foreign fighters

	The presence of several thousand foreign fighters has further complicated the situation.

	Afghan government officials said in June 2015 there were more than 7,000 foreign militants in Afghanistan. The Taliban have been bolstered by militants from the Middle East, Central Asian countries and Pakistan.

	About a dozen militant groups, having different goals and agendas, are fighting in Afghanistan. A few of them have challenged the Taliban's supremacy, but most of them are directly or indirectly supporting the Afghan Taliban with money and/or manpower. 



This development not only bodes ill for Afghanistan, but for the rest of the world. The Taliban have allowed terrorists in Afghanistan, predominantly belonging to groups linked to the Taliban, to train for and plot international attacks:



http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/05/22/al-qaeda-planning-major-terror-attack-against-west-from-afghanis/
	Al-Qaeda has re-established its terrorist headquarters in southern Afghanistan and is using it as a base to plan major attacks against the West, the Daily Telegraph can reveal.

	After more than a decade of hiding across the border in Pakistan’s lawless tribal belt, al-Qaeda terrorist cells have moved back into southern Afghanistan following the withdrawal of British and American forces at the end of 2014.

	Now Afghan security officials are warning that al-Qaeda chiefs are hoping to use their new Afghan base to plot a fresh wave of terror attacks against the West and its allies.

	“Al-Qaeda has taken advantage of the withdrawal of Western troops to re-establish its headquarters in southern Afghanistan,” said a senior Afghan defence official. “Now they are back they will be determined to use Afghanistan as a base to prepare new attacks against Western targets.”

	...Afghan security officials say al-Qaeda terror cells are operating in an around the southern city of Kandahar, which is regarded as the spiritual home of the Taliban, al-Qaeda’s closest ally and supporter in the region.

	And the return of al-Qaeda to southern Afghanistan represents a major embarrassment for the British and American governments which spent more than a decade fighting a bitter war in southern Afghanistan to prevent the country from becoming a safe haven for Islamist terrorists.


http://www.cnn.com/2010/WORLD/europe/09/29/us.europe.terror.plot/
	Official: Terror plot included possible attacks in 5 European countries

	(CNN) -- A potential terror plot may have involved synchronized attacks in several countries with "at least a dozen" people taking part, a law enforcement official said Wednesday.

	Earlier, a German counterterrorism source said that a man captured in Afghanistan had tipped off investigators to a potential "Mumbai-style" plot in Europe.

	Mumbai, the financial hub of India, was the site of a three-day terror attack two years ago that left more than 160 people dead. Ten men launched the carefully planned assault, targeting prominent sites such as the Taj Mahal Palace and Tower hotel, the Oberoi-Trident hotels, the historic Victoria Terminus train station and a Jewish cultural center.

	The intelligence gathered so far, the law enforcement official said, indicated that sites in the United Kingdom, France and Germany as well as Italy and Belgium may have been targets in the potential plot.

	Investigators believe al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden signed off on a European attack plan, a separate law enforcement source said.

	...The potential plot against Europe is apparently one reason for the increase in attacks by unmanned aerial drones in Pakistan.

	...Most of the drone attacks this year have been focused on North Waziristan, a mountainous area bordering Afghanistan where Pakistani security forces have little control. That has continued to be the pattern this month.

	...According to the official, the mix of threats remains the same. It comes from groups like the Haqqani network, al Qaeda, the Afghan Taliban and the Pakistan Taliban. The threats they pose are "all deadly," said the official.


https://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/30/us/politics/as-us-focuses-on-isis-and-the-taliban-al-qaeda-re-emerges.html
	As U.S. Focuses on ISIS and the Taliban, Al Qaeda Re-emerges

	Even as the Obama administration scrambles to confront the Islamic State and a resurgent Taliban, an old enemy seems to be reappearing in Afghanistan: Qaeda training camps are sprouting up there, forcing the Pentagon and American intelligence agencies to assess whether they could again become a breeding ground for attacks on the United States.


http://www.cnn.com/2015/10/21/politics/al-qaeda-afghanistan-kandahar/index.html
	Washington (CNN) An al Qaeda training camp in southern Afghanistan that was the target of a major raid last week had been operating since last November -- and the U.S. didn't learn the full details about the site until July, coalition forces said in an email Wednesday.

	...It is estimated by the U.S. that more than 160 suspected terrorists were killed from a number of groups. U.S. officials have said they believe a number of al Qaeda and related terrorist group members have been pushed into Afghanistan due to pressure from Pakistani military operations on the other side of the border.


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/apr/24/osama-bin-ladens-purported-former-bodyguards-held-in-italian-terror-raids
	A terror cell that plotted to bomb the Vatican and included Osama bin Laden’s bodyguards among its members has been smashed by Italian counter-terror police, prosecutors have said.

	Following a 10-year investigation that began with a probe into illegal immigration, police launched raids across Italy and Sardinia on Friday, targeting 18 people suspected of links with al-Qaida.

	An as-yet-unspecified number of Pakistani and Afghan nationals were arrested, including a spiritual leader of the small Muslim community on Sardinia, but others are believed to have fled the country.

	...The extremists were allegedly involved in smuggling Pakistani and Afghan nationals into Europe through Italy, according to police.


https://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/national/details-of-terror-plot-emerge-after-ottawa-mans-guilty-plea/article20652171/
	Details of terror plot emerge after Ottawa man’s guilty plea 

	He is the type of terrorist the government has been warning about: a fanatic who returned from a war zone with bomb-making skills and a plan to set off explosions in Canada.

	Yet Hiva Alizadeh, a 34-year-old living in Ottawa and trained in Afghanistan, never got a chance to execute his plan. The scheme had involved 56 detonation devices he’d built with instruction from Taliban-aligned fighters and smuggled into Canada.

	“If Allah wills, we will break their backs in their own country,” he was caught saying in Ottawa, on a wiretap, before his 2010 arrest.

	Such evidence was kept secret until Wednesday, when Mr. Alizadeh – who had sworn an oath to al-Qaeda – entered a surprise guilty plea to terrorism charges in an Ottawa court. The plea got him a 24-year sentence and, for the first time, revealed the alarming details behind the case.

	...Police discovered that in 2009, he had flown from Canada to his native Iran, where he sneaked into Afghanistan. He attended a terrorist training camp, and learned how to fire guns and build bombs.


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-pakistan-militants-attacks-insight-idUSKCN0HP2MM20141001
	Months after Owais Jakhrani was sacked from the Pakistan navy for radical Islamist views, he led an audacious mission to take over a warship and turn its guns on a U.S. naval vessel in the open seas. 

	...According to an initial statement from al Qaeda, the plan was to use the Zulfiqar to attack a U.S. navy vessel, meaning potential loss of American lives and a blow to relations between the two nations.

	A further statement issued by the group identified the target as USS Supply, a US naval ship used to refuel warships at sea. The Indian navy was also a target, the statement said. 

	...Earlier this year, Jakhrani traveled to Afghanistan to meet militant leaders and receive combat training, according to two officials. They said that he had told his bosses before departing that he needed to take leave to study for exams. 


https://www.cbsnews.com/news/zazi-admits-bomb-plot-against-nyc-subways/
	Zazi Admits Bomb Plot Against NYC Subways

	...The Associated Press learned earlier this month that the jailed Zazi had recently volunteered information about the bomb plot in the first step toward a plea deal. His cooperation suggests prosecutors hope to expand the case and bring charges against other suspects in one of the most serious terrorism threats in the U.S. since Sept. 11, 2001.

	...Zazi admitted Monday that he and others agreed to travel to Afghanistan to join the Taliban and fight against United States and allied forces, according to a Justice Department press release. They from Newark, N.J., to Peshawar, Pakistan at the end of August 2008. Although Zazi and others initially intended to fight on behalf of the Taliban, they were recruited by al Qaeda shortly after arriving in Peshawar. 


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-russia-bomb-metro-idUSKBN17R24J
	Group claims Russia metro bombing, says bomber acted on al Qaeda orders: monitor

	A group called the Imam Shamil Battalion has claimed responsibility for a metro bombing in the Russian city of St. Petersburg that killed 16 people and said the bomber was acting on orders from al Qaeda, according to the SITE monitoring group.

	...The statement, posted by SITE on Tuesday, said the bomber, Akbarzhon Jalilov, had acted on instructions from al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri, in the April 3 attack on the metro in Russia's second biggest city. 


http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/jun/2/smuggling-network-guided-illegal-immigrants-from-m/
	A smuggling network has managed to sneak illegal immigrants from Middle Eastern terrorism hotbeds straight to the doorstep of the U.S., including helping one Afghan who authorities say was part of an attack plot in North America.

	Immigration officials have identified at least a dozen Middle Eastern men smuggled into the Western Hemisphere by a Brazilian-based network that connected them with Mexicans who guided them to the U.S. border, according to internal government documents reviewed by The Washington Times.

	Those smuggled included Palestinians, Pakistanis and the Afghan man who Homeland Security officials said had family ties to the Taliban and was “involved in a plot to conduct an attack in the U.S. and/or Canada.” He is in custody, but The Times is withholding his name at the request of law enforcement to protect investigations.



What's arguably worse, the Taliban have single-handedly fueled the global opium epidemic, supplying 90% of the world's opium:



https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/17/world/asia/afghanistan-opium-taliban-drug-cartel.html
	Penetrating Every Stage of Afghan Opium Chain, Taliban Become a Cartel

	It was an impressive take for the Afghan forces that day, July 12, 2014. They seized nearly a metric ton of opium in various phases of processing, three AK-47 assault rifles, an automatic handgun, a PKM machine gun, a rocket-propelled grenade, hundreds of rounds of ammunition, four two-way radios and two satellite phones.

	But the biggest coup was neither the drugs nor the weapons. It was a passenger who gave his name as Muhammad Eshaq, a 40-year-old carpet seller from Nimruz. After a later inquiry by international officials, the police discovered that Mr. Eshaq was actually Mullah Abdul Rashid Baluch, the Taliban shadow governor of Nimruz Province: a man with blood on his hands and with direct links to the top Taliban leaders in Pakistan.

	In many respects, Mullah Rashid embodies the evolution of the Taliban movement in Afghanistan. As a hardened insurgent, most notorious for planning a mass suicide attack in Nimruz during the holy month of Ramadan, he had become among the most powerful drug smugglers in all of southern Afghanistan.

	...Mullah Rashid is just one of dozens of senior Taliban leaders who are so enmeshed in the drug trade that it has become difficult to distinguish the group from a dedicated drug cartel. While the Taliban have long profited from the taxation and protection of the drug trade in Afghanistan, insurgents are taking more direct roles and claiming spots higher up in the opium chain, according to interviews with dozens of Afghan and Western officials, as well as smugglers and members of the communities where they reside.

	This includes high-level commanders, like Mullah Rashid, personally escorting large shipments. And it goes straight to the top: The new Taliban leader, Mullah Akhtar Muhammad Mansour, is at the pinnacle of a pyramid of tribal Ishaqzai drug traffickers and has amassed an immense personal fortune, according to United Nations monitors. That drug money changed the entire shape of the Taliban: With it, Mullah Mansour bought off influential dissenters when he claimed the supreme leadership over the summer, according to senior Taliban commanders.

	In some areas of Afghanistan, the Taliban have provided seeds for farmers to grow opium on the insurgents’ behalf, or paid middlemen to purchase opium for them to store while they wait for prices to increase.


http://www.cbsnews.com/news/afghanistan-taliban-double-opium-income-new-strain-high-yield-poppy-seed/
	Taliban set to double opium profits this year?

	It's the cash crop of the Taliban and the scourge of Afghanistan - the country's intractable opium cultivation. This year, many Afghan poppy farmers are expecting a windfall as they get ready to harvest opium from a new variety of poppy seeds said to boost yield of the resin that produces heroin.

	The plants grow bigger, faster, use less water than seeds they've used before, and give up to double the amount of opium, they say.

	No one seems to know where the seeds originate from. The farmers of Kandahar and Helmand provinces, where most of Afghanistan's poppies are grown, say they were hand-delivered for planting early this year by the same men who collect the opium after each harvest, and who also provide them with tools, fertilizer, farming advice - and the much needed cash advance.

	Afghanistan's poppy harvest, which accounts for most of the world's heroin, is worth an estimated $3 billion a year, according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. Production hit a record high in 2014, up 17 percent compared to the year before, as opium and the drugs trade continued to undermine security, rule of law and development, while funding both organized crime and the Taliban -- often one and the same.

	...Experts say the Taliban, who have been waging war on the Kabul government for more than a decade, derive around 40 percent of their funding from opium, which in turn fuels their insurgency.

	Fierce fighting in recent months in poppy-growing regions shows the Taliban's determination to protect their trafficking routes and the seasonal workers who come to earn money at harvest time from government forces under orders to eradicate the crop.

	...Afghanistan supplies 90 percent of the world's opium and opiates originating from there find their way to every corner of the globe, Sopko said.

	The Taliban will also likely be emboldened, since for the first time this year, there are no international combat troops on the battlefields of Afghanistan after the NATO drawdown at the end of 2014.


https://books.google.com/books?id=dld2wJ2Z__4C&pg=PA118
	The Taliban have provided an Islamic sanction for farmers like Wali Jan to grow even more opium, even though the Koran forbids Muslims from producing or imbibing intoxicants. ...Rashid tells me without a hint of sarcasm, 'Opiu is permissible because it is consumed by kafirs [unbelievers] in the West and not by Muslims or Afghans.'


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2015/02/08/afghanistan-opium-addiction-us-withdrawal/22851573/
	Afghans' addiction to opium ravages adults, infants

	...The domestic toll is heavy. The number of Afghans addicted to opium and other drugs has soared 60% since 2009 to as many as 1.6 million, or 5% of the population, the U.S. Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction reports.

	Most Afghans view opium as a medicine that treats everything from a headache to cancer. Often, it's the only palliative available in the rugged country's remote regions.

	...A pale-skinned, underweight woman at the hospital named Aisha Jan from the Jowzjan province in the north said she and her family fell into the trap of using opium to treat cancer.

	"My daughter had cancer, and we thought opium would cure her cancer," she said as her body shook from an opium craving that began before her daughter's illness. "She died a month after she was diagnosed."

	Jan said she has been trying to remain in the hospital for as long as possible so she won't relapse into drug use. "If I go back home, I will be addicted to opium once again," she said.


https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/more-heroin-deaths-anticipated-due-to-high-supply-from-afghanistan/
	VIENNA (Reuters) - The U.N. drug body warned on Friday that record poppy output in Afghanistan will translate into a spike in heroin-induced deaths, with death rates already rising in Britain and the United States.

	Opium poppy cultivation in Afghanistan reached its highest last year since records began in 1998, according to the annual report of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC).

	Afghanistan accounts for about 85% of opium production and 77% of worldwide heroin production, UNODC's annual World Drug Report showed.

	"We know there is much larger supply of opiates that will be translating into heroin ... It's important to warn that the supply is there," Angela Me, one of the main authors of the report, told reporters in Vienna.

	"In the (United States) and in (Britain)... we see a market with increased supply particularly of cheap heroin and we already see some impact in terms of deaths. We see heroin-related deaths are going up," she said.

	A major impact in global use of heroin and related dangers is likely to appear in the coming year as opiates take one to two years to reach consumer markets such as Europe.

	Afghan supply is going up as farmers have more incentives to cultivate poppy than other crops. The infrastructure surrounding opium, for example, is safer than for other crops in Afghan areas with militant violence because traffickers come straight to the farmers to pick up the product, Me said.

	In terms of global cultivation of opiates, the area used for growing opiates went up by 5% to cover the equivalent of around 440,000 soccer pitches.

	"Heroin continues to be the most dangerous drug," Me said, adding that heroin accounts for the great majority of the 200,000 drug-deaths a year.



By body-count, the opium trade may be the Taliban's most "successful" terrorism operation yet, contributing to hundreds of thousands of deaths a year over decades.

The situation in Afghanistan today mirrors the situation in 2001, where the Taliban sold opium around the world and harbored the extremists who plotted the September 11th attacks. A key difference today is that the Afghan government is a powerful force:



http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2017/06/08/afghan-government-funding-taliban-run-schools-militant-group/
	The Afghan government is funding schools and hospitals run by the Taliban as the militant group seeks to establish itself as a legitimate administration in large swathes of the country, a new film has found.   

	A report by a BBC team granted rare access to the group’s stronghold in Helmand province found the Taliban has been forced to present itself as somewhat modernised since Afghans have grown used to government services and a different way of life after the group was ousted from official power. 

	The Taliban has grown in confidence three years since Western troops withdrew from the country.



Should the government stabilize their country, the terrorists would find much greater difficulty basing their operations there, and the global opium epidemic would be slashed or eliminated.

But the government have been losing territory to the Taliban and other forces, down to less than 60% of the country from about 70% last year. These losses are due in part to the recent influx of thousands of foreign militants aligned with the Taliban. The U.S. maintained about 100,000 troops in Afghanistan in 2010, although this number has fallen to around 8,400 recently (see: https://www.militarytimes.com/news/your-military/2016/07/06/a-timeline-of-u-s-troop-levels-in-afghanistan-since-2001/).

The Russian government has also been contributing to the Taliban's success:



https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/checkpoint/wp/2017/04/24/russia-is-sending-weapons-to-taliban-top-u-s-general-confirms/
	Russia is sending weapons to Taliban, top U.S. general confirms

	KABUL — The general in charge of U.S. forces in Afghanistan appeared to confirm Monday that Russia is sending weapons to the Taliban, an intervention that will probably further complicate the 15-year-old war here and the Kremlin’s relations with the United States.

	When asked by reporters, Gen. John Nicholson did not dispute claims that the Taliban is receiving weapons and other supplies from the Russians.

	“We continue to get reports of this assistance,” Nicholson said, speaking to reporters alongside Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. “We support anyone who wants to help us advance the reconciliation process, but anyone who arms belligerents who perpetuate attacks like the one we saw two days ago in Mazar-e Sharif is not the best way forward to a peaceful reconciliation.”

	A senior U.S. military official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence on the issue, said the Russians have increased their supply of equipment and small arms to the Taliban over the past 18 months.


www.foxnews.com/world/2017/05/17/evidence-russian-military-support-for-afghan-taliban-is-growing.html
	Evidence of Russian military support for Afghan Taliban is growing

	KABUL, Afghanistan – Afghanistan villagers caught in Taliban territory in the northern province of Kunduz, by the border of Tajikistan, recently began reporting unmarked helicopters at night landing and leaving quickly from known Taliban hideouts, or at least areas outside of government control.

	Others spoke of smugglers bringing in shipments of small boats across the quiet river, called Panj on the Tajikistan side and Amu on the Afghanistan, between the two countries.

	It didn't take long before suspicions arose of an international outfit at play. The locals feared going close to the tightly controlled Taliban enclaves to investigate. Around the same time, reports from the U.S. started growing that Russia was once again meddling in Afghanistan -- this time by arming the Taliban.

	"I believe what Russia is attempting to do is they are attempting to be an influential party in this part of the world," Gen. Joseph Votel, chief of U.S. Central Command, told American lawmakers in March. "I think it is fair to assume they may be providing some sort of support to [the Taliban] in terms of weapons or other things that may be there."

	The recent onslaught of the Taliban into the north of Afghanistan -- once a relatively stable place compared to the insurgency-saturated southern and eastern areas -- can be partly attributed, say many experts and officials, to Russian involvement.

	"The success of the Taliban in the north is due to Russian support. In Kunduz province, 30 miles from the Afghanistan-Tajikistan border, Taliban has control," Kabul-based analyst Silab Mangal told Fox News. "That's where they get Russian finance and logistics and their wounded fighters can get treatment."

	According to Mangal, who cites personal engagement with Taliban in those areas, the Russians have given them weapons over time, including the Dragnov sniper rifle and the PTRS-41 anti-tank rifle.

	Getting in such weapons or advisers smoothly, by air or land, is a hypothetically straight-forward task. Tajikistan shares a zig-zag 750-mile border with northern Afghanistan, and Russia’s largest foreign military installation, Russia’s 201st Rifle Division, is located just across the border.

	"Russia has a lot of influences with all the tribes here on the border. They know all the local commanders," one Afghan official, who previously operated in the Panj region and had direct ties to Moscow, said. "In just a few minutes, helicopters can go and come back without too much notice. And boats attract little attention."

	Another well-placed intelligence source, who also requested anonymity due to safety concerns in the Taliban-infested region, told Fox News that the mysterious weapons transfers -- coming from abroad -- are in due course empowering the Taliban to maintain a strong foothold in the north of Afghanistan.

	According to the source, Russia tightened engagement with the Taliban during the second term of former President Hamid Karzai, around 2009, as his ties with the U.S. deteriorated. But mysterious deliveries allegedly started just prior to the first fall of Kunduz city in 2015. Although seemingly random, they have become more frequent in the past eight months.

	...On Wednesday, the police chief of the northern province of Baghlan, Brig. Gen. Ikramuddin Sarai, told Pajhwok Afghan News that Russian and other foreign military advisers had arrived to support the Taliban amid heavy clashes. Similar reports surfaced last month in the southern province of Uruzgan, in which police chief Ghulam Farooq Sangari told Voice of America's Afghan service that advisers -- including two women dressed in doctor's uniforms and guarded by four armed Taliban along with an Afghan translator -- were in various locations. The accusation was denied by Russian officials.



Historically, Russia's special services have supplied, supported, and recruited terrorists and directed their attacks (see: https://archive.org/details/TheWorldWasGoingOurWayTheKGBAndTheBattleForTheTheThirdWorld).

Russia's special services have also supported the opium trade in Afghanistan, and continue to do so, at least implicitly, today:



https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/WALLENBERG,%20RAOUL%20%20%20VOL.%203_0101.pdf
	Jan 89

	...Subject claims KGB military specialists have an active program to supply weapons and money to terrorist groups but could not provide specific information. He said in the past the KGB provided support to revolutionary groups in Angola, Iran, Afghanistan

	...Subject had no information on KGB participation in drug trafficking abroad, but said there were rumors of heavy involvement in the drug trade in Afghanistan


http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/1987/eirv14n02-19870109/eirv14n02-19870109_033-the_soviet_connection_heroin_fro.pdf
	The 'Soviet connection': Heroin from Mghanistan reaches the West

	On May 27, 1986, in the Dutch port of Rotterdam, the Soviet cargo ship Kapitan Tomson, coming from the Soviet Baltic port of Riga, steered for its berth at the Unitcenter dock in the Waalhaven section of the harbor.

	The ship had made this journey many times, attracting little notice, except from the merchants and businessmen awaiting their freight. But this time, the Narcotics Squad of Rotterdam's harbor police anxiously awaited its arrival. Two containers the stevedores would remove had papers showing that they contained raisins. But among their contents, the police" found at least 220 kilos of heroin that had come from Soviet-occupied Afghanistan.

	That heroin was the largest seizure in the history of European anti-narcotics work. From Afghanistan, the heroin had traveled through the Soviet Union to the Baltic port of Riga, where it was placed aboard the Kapitan Tomson.

	...The hardest evidence yet of Soviet involvement in narcotics trade did not come to light for over two months. The story did not come out until a German magazine, Krieg dem Rauschgift (War on Drugs), stirred up a hornet's nest in the Netherlands, while following up a report issued by Italian High Commissioner for Investigating the Mafia, Riccardo Boccia, on the Soviet connection to this drug seizure.

	...maps of the hills and valleys of the opium-growing regions along the Hilmend and Kuna rivers, show that the areas are deep inside the lines of the Soviet mechanized rifle divisions, and, in some cases, the areas border the Soviet Union itself. According to a Dutch journalist who recently returned from Afghanistan, poppy production in the province of Manghahar has increased from 4,200 kilos to 17,500 kilos. And, according to a report in the French daily Le Figaro, these regions are not far from poppy-growing regions in the Soviet Union. The same report identifies the Soviet Central Asian republics of Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, and Tadzhikstan, as well as further west in the Transcaucasian republic of Georgia, as the two major Soviet domestic poppy-growing regions.

	...Boccia made a very clear case for Soviet' involvement, revealing not only that "for the first time, we have proof that drug traffickers of Soviet citizenship" were involved, but also the existence of a top-secret KGB directive "M-120/00-050," outlining Soviet plans to use the drug trade to destabilize the West. A copy of this directive, plus 399 other Soviet KGB­ related documents, was handed over to Western intelligence services on Feb. 10, 1971, by a former high-ranking officer of the Bulgarian Secret Services, codenamed Stefan Svedlev, after he escaped from Bulgaria in 1971.

	Commissioner Boccia explained that the Soviet drug war started in 1967, the year Yuri Andropov took over the KGB, at a meeting in Moscow of the Warsaw Pact Security Service chiefs, whose purpose was to develop plans to "exploit and hasten the inherent corruption of Western society."

	A subsequent meeting of Bulgarian Secret Service officials in Sofia, Bulgaria established a three-year "action plan" to implement the "exploitation." Defector "Svedlev" said that Directive M-120/00-050 was issued in June 1970, in assessing the progress of the plan to "destabilize Western scoiety through . . . the narcotics trade."


http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/10/30/AR2010103002117.html
	Russia's heroin problem and ongoing battles over Afghan poppy fields

	MOSCOW - Russia has a heroin problem - a bad one. And drug officials here have been blaming it on the United States, saying its refusal to spray Afghan poppy fields is devastating Russia.

	While the two countries have been getting along famously in recent months, resolving serious differences over arms control, Iran and trade, they have not agreed on what to do about the mountains of heroin cascading from Afghanistan. The complaints from Russia grew ever louder - until Friday.

	At a briefing in Moscow, Viktor Ivanov, director of Russia's Federal Drug Control Service, declared that U.S. forces acting on information from Russian intelligence had knocked out a complex of four drug labs on the Afghan border with Pakistan, confiscating a ton of heroin worth millions.

	"We are jointly working," Ivanov said Friday, adding that four Russians accompanied U.S. forces, the first time Russians had been at an operation there since withdrawing from Afghanistan in 1989. "As you can see, we do as we promise."

	Ivanov has been campaigning hard against the heroin epidemic - Russia has about 2 million addicts who consume about 21 percent of the world's supply. But his critics say it is easier to crusade against opium production in Afghanistan than to stem it here, where it's too profitable a business to disrupt, methadone is illegal and there is no rehabilitation system.


https://themoscowtimes.com/articles/putin-closes-russias-drugs-agency-casts-aside-longtime-supporter-ivanov-52936
	Putin Closes Russia's Drugs Agency, Casts Aside Longtime Supporter Ivanov

	On May 10, an unusual post appeared on Facebook, apparently signed by Viktor Ivanov, the head of Russia’s Federal Drug Control Service (FSKN). “Comrades and fellow soldiers,” it began. “I want to apologize that I couldn’t save our organization. We protected our national interests honestly.” Someone somewhere seemed far from happy with the decision to dismantle one of the largest government agencies.

	For any former senior level official to question President Vladimir Putin’s logic is, in the context of the Russian system, a demonstration of significant disloyalty. The post — allegedly written by Ivanov himself — disappeared from Facebook within an hour.

	...Most experts and insiders surveyed by The Moscow Times agreed that the liquidation of FSKN is a risky call, and the situation with drug trafficking will deteriorate.

	...Ivanov apparently rebuffed an attack at his agency last year, when the press leaked that a decree to liquidate FSKN had been already sent to the government. This time, as the Facebook post on May 10 said, Ivanov just couldn’t save it.

	Come June 1, nothing will remain of the former agency. “Not one FSKN general will move over to the Interior Ministry,” says the source



That the Russian government would support terrorism and the opium trade in Afghanistan even at the expense of their own people suggests that these problems would not get any better should the Russian-backed Taliban seize the country.

The rest of the world should not allow this to happen.

With this in mind, Trump's recent plan to increase operations in Afghanistan sounds more or less like the right thing to do. This is particularly noteworthy, since, perhaps for the first time, Trump's policies are in opposition to those of Putin, and it does look like Putin has been trying to blackmail Trump:


http://www.cnn.com/2017/08/03/politics/mueller-investigation-russia-trump-one-year-financial-ties/index.html
	Investigators are looking both at whether financial laws were broken and whether there are any dealings that could put the President or his associates in a compromising position.

	"There's always been a concern about his exposure to blackmail in his financial dealings," says the person briefed on the investigation.

	Trump has repeatedly insisted that he has no enduring financial ties to Russian interests.


http://www.businessinsider.com/czech-secret-agents-spied-on-donald-trump-he-is-tax-exempt-for-30-years-2016-12
	The spy writes that Trump's company is absolutely safe, economically speaking, since it receives commissions from the state. One other juicy detail: "Another advantage is the personal relationship with the American President and the fact that he is completely tax-exempt for the next 30 years."


http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/ct-trump-1996-presidential-race-20170112-story.html
	A year before the 1989 collapse of communism in many parts of Europe, details about Ivana Trump's 1988 visit back to her homeland were recorded in a classified police report. The Oct. 22, 1988 report claimed that Trump refused to run for president in 1988 — despite alleged pressure to do so — because he felt, at 42, he was too young. But the secret report said he intended to run in the 1996 U.S. presidential race as an independent, when he would be 50.

	...Ivana Trump allegedly said she believed U.S. embassy staffers were following her. The fact that she was supposed to meet with a Czechoslovak security official during the trip added to her nervousness, the police file stated.

	She didn't give any details about that meeting, the report said. But it added that she said "as a wife of D. TRUMP she receives constant attention because he is pressured to run for the office of U.S. president ... and any mistake she would make could have immense consequences for him."

	..."Even though it looks like a utopia, D. TRUMP is confident he will succeed," the police report said, based on information from an unspecified source who talked to Ivana Trump's father, Milos Zelnicek, about her visit.

	It was unclear where the alleged "pressure" was coming from.


http://nypost.com/1999/11/10/trump-bares-naked-ambition-prez-hopeful-stuns-reform-party-with-raunchy-stern-talk/
	November 10, 1999

	...Trump’s political adviser, Roger Stone, said it’s unlikely Trump would release his tax returns – as many presidential candidates do in the spirit of full disclosure


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/03/03/the-web-of-relationships-between-team-trump-and-russia/
	Roger Stone, longtime adviser. Stone’s connection to Russia is murky. During the campaign, he drew attention for seeming to have inside knowledge on the WikiLeaks document releases — releases that have been linked to Russian interests by the government. More directly, the Times reports that Stone is possibly under investigation by the U.S. government for his links to Russia.


http://www.mediaite.com/online/roger-stone-thinks-there-might-be-a-snitch-in-the-trump-campaign/
	Roger Stone Thinks There Might Be a Snitch in the Trump Campaign

	October 4th, 2016

	Trump ally Roger Stone suspects that the candidate’s campaign is out of joint, and someone in the tent might be responsible for leaking Trump’s 1995 tax returns.

	Speaking Tuesday on Boston Herald Radio, Stone, the former Trump campaign advisor, explained his theories about the provenance of the leaked returns, which ended up in mailboxes belonging to reporters at the New York Times and New York Daily News.

	Stone said the leak might have come from “Somebody who worked at The Trump Organization, perhaps. Or perhaps a former employee. But I would just be speculating.”


https://www.dni.gov/files/documents/ICA_2017_01.pdf
	Intelligence Community Assessment

	Assessing Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent US Elections

	...In early September, Putin said publicly it was important the DNC data was exposed to WikiLeaks, calling the search for the so urce of the leaks a distraction and denying Russian “state - level” involvement.

	The Kremlin’s principal international propaganda outlet RT (formerly Russia Today) has actively collaborated with WikiLeaks.


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/trump-briefed-classified-report-russia-election-hacking/
	The officials — Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, CIA Director John Brennan and FBI Director James Comey — are preparing to point to multiple motives for Moscow’s alleged meddling as they brief Trump on their classified report Friday


http://fortune.com/2017/01/23/wikileaks-trump-tax-returns/
	WikiLeaks Says It Will Publish Donald Trump’s Tax Returns


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/dec/04/vladimir-putin-russia-donald-trump-smart-man
	Putin says Trump's business record shows he is a 'smart man' 

	Trump will ‘quickly realize’ his new responsibilities, says Russian leader

	...“He could achieve success in business, which says that he’s a smart man. And if he’s a smart man, that means that he’ll fully and quickly enough realize this different level of responsibility. We expect that he will act with this perspective in mind.”



It remains to be seen if Trump will continue a trend of putting the American people's interests before Putin's.
