The Haunted Wood: Soviet Espionage in America


pg 144

	After this meeting, Peter Gutzeit reported to Moscow on issues that went well beyond future dealings with the Congressman. He outlined a more general strategy for NKVD operations in the United States to maximize Soviet political influence. Even granting Dickstein's tendency to exaggerate the importance of information he was providing, Gutzeit urged his superiors nonetheless to consider not only spending the $15,000 or more annually to maintain Dickstein on the payroll (with receipts) but also "probably ... to throw him a round sum for the reelection campaign."

	His rationale for this arrangement might well have been written by certain foreign intelligence operatives in America during the 1990s:

		In this connection we put forward a general matter of a necessity to have several people of ours among Congressmen and even Senators if we decided to penetrate seriously and actively into the politics of this country. It is necessary to decide this question on principle as very big money will be needed for this purpose. ... Helping during the elections with money means to define relations with a future Congressman or Senator, possibly, for some years. It doesn't mean that they should be obligatorily recruited by all traditional rules (some could be recruited), but it does mean that we create a group of our people in the legislative bodies, define their political positions, and insert [them] there to actively influence [events].


talking about using Congress for influence operations


	...No response to Gutzeit's detailed memo could be found in the NKVD files, and the station chief's subsequent recall to the Soviet Union marked the end of this grandiose scheme.


hmmm


	...NKVD operations in America had been hurt at this time by arrests in Moscow of key intelligence agents during Stalin's purges. One of those imprisoned and later executed after answering a summons home was Peter Gutzeit, who cautioned his interrogators in Lubyanka Prison that Samuel Dickstein's professed antifascism was a sham justification for his continued work with the NKVD: "Money brought him to cooperation with the USSR."


	...By the time Dickstein's response reached Moscow, Passov, too, had been arrested. An internal NKVD memorandum expressed regrets that some of the Congressman's Soviet handlers had turned out to be "people's enemies."


what is this getting at?


talks about how he keeps requesting money and giving bad intelligence

is reader supposed to figure out he's doing influence ops without author saying it? it seems weird


http://www.ifeveryoneknew.com/read?article=7
	Extensive excerpts of testimony implicating J.P. Morgan, the Du Pont interests, Remington Arms, and others were removed from hearing transcripts by the The McCormack-Dickstein Committee.[5] However, Committee Chairman Samuel Dickstein unwittingly granted access to the unedited transcripts to a reporter for an upcoming story[5], which was printed in the New Masses magazine[11]. Despite the expunged testimony being printed in the press, full unedited transcripts of the McCormack-Dickstein Committee’s hearings cannot be found to this day.[4]


looks like Dickstein was doing an influence operation here

interesting that both his handlers died

Did they want to keep Dickstein especially secret? Although it is clear they had other spies in Congress too.

Also interesting that the handler didn't know about influence ops--seems they wanted to keep some agents in the dark?

Dickstein's wiki page says "Not even Julius Rosenberg knew that Samuel Dickstein had been on the KGB's payroll."

It's like Dickstein knew more than his handlers--"payment" could be funding for a different op, for example, and Dickstein was a spy for a longer time.

see that in their espionage broadly, where it's like the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. E.g. Richard Sorge doing all that work to tell Stalin about operation Barbarossa, when Stalin already knew about it anyway.

Also reminds me of Sorge "finding intel" that Japan wasn't going to attack Soviet Union, but what if it was more like Stalin ordered Japan not to attack? Ozaki was said to have "supported" the decision not to attack.

It just makes practical sense not to tell every spy everything, or even the scope or nature of the operations broadly.


pg 149

	In a famous incident in 1948, Dickstein, while serving as a judge, ordered Soviet officials to produce in court a Russian citizen and schoolteacher of diplomatic children who was being held against her will in the USSR Consulate in New York. Hours later, Mrs. Oksana Kasenkina, who had refused a Moscow order to return home, made a daring and successful "leap to freedom," as media throughout the world described her bruising jump from an upper-floor window ledge at the consulate into the courtyard below. It was Soviet Consul-General Jacob Lomakin's disobedience of Dickstein's court order, however, that outraged the once-friendly former-Congressman-turned-jurist. "I will compel him to obey," Samuel Dickstein exclaimed. "I am not going to let him ignore the law."

	The irony of Dickstein's declaration would not have been lost on any Soviet intelligence official in Moscow whose case file included an earlier encounter with "Crook."


what was going on here



http://www.nydailynews.com/news/national/russian-defector-oksana-kasenkina-leap-freedom-article-1.820726
	At 4:19 p.m. on Thursday the 12th of August, a 52-year-old school teacher named Oksana Stepanova Kasenkina hurled herself from a third-floor window of the Russian Consulate at 7 E. 61st St., preferring death over forcible return to Moscow. Unfortunately for Pal Joey, she lived.


attempted suicide? murder?


	...On Wednesday the 11th, state Supreme Court Justice Samuel Dickstein, acting on a suit brought by the citizens group Common Cause, ordered Lomakin to produce Kasenkina in court. A fuming Lomakin threw down Dickstein's writ when it was served and declared that he would not comply.

	The next afternoon  as the Soviet government demanded that Washington punish New York authorities for their interference in a consular matter  Oksana Kasenkina went out her window.

	Telephone wires broke her fall, probably saved her life. She crashed into the courtyard and lay there, moaning, legs and pelvis shattered, as consular officials rushed out and tried to shoo away reporters camped outside the 7-foot fence. "Leave me alone, leave me alone," she screamed as workers began to drag her broken body inside.


probably wouldn't have had a warm welcome back home... see: Dickstein's handlers


	...Back, however, he went. As the Kasenkina affair became the lead item on Voice of America broadcasts into the Iron Curtain countries and as HUAC announced that the defector would be a witness once she recovered from her injuries


interesting... maybe she didn't defect after all?


	...In Washington, Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Carl Spaatz proudly announced a new guided missile capable of carrying an atomic warhead 5,000 miles.

	At a street fair outside Grand Central Terminal, 50,000 New Yorkers cheered as nuclear scientists ceremoniously split a uranium atom in a blinding flash.

	Oksana Kasenkina in 1949 published her autobiography, "Leap to Freedom," and briefly enjoyed a career as an anti-Communist heroine. Then, always fearful of Red assassins, she dropped out of sight. She died in 1960 in Miami, where she had been living in a cheap hotel under an assumed name.


what


weird article


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consulate-General_of_Russia_in_New_York_City
	On 31 July 1948, Oksana Kasenkina, a Soviet citizen and a teacher to the children of diplomats of the Soviet mission to the United Nations, appealed to the editor of a Russian-language newspaper in New York City for refuge, and arrangements were made to take Kasenkina to Reed Farm in Valley Cottage, which was operated by the White Russian Tolstoy Foundation. Whilst at the Farm, Kasenkina wrote a letter to Soviet Consul-General Jacob Lomakin ending: "I implore you, I implore you once more, don't let me perish here. I am without willpower." On 7 August Lomakin with vice-consul Chepurnykh arrived at the farm. According to Tolstoy Foundation President Mrs. Alexandra Tolstaya, Kasenkina "at her own free will" went with them to the consulate.[7] On 9 August, Soviet Ambassador to the United States Alexander Panyushkin presented a letter of protest to the United States Department of State, alleging that Kasenkina had been kidnapped and held against her will by members of the Tolstoy Foundation. On 11 August, Vyacheslav Molotov handed a protest note to United States Ambassador to the Soviet Union Walter Bedell Smith, in which the accusations were repeated.[8]


wtf


	...The consulate, as well as the San Francisco consulate, was closed on 25 August 1948,[10] and on the basis of reciprocity, the Soviet Union ordered that United States consulate in Vladivostok be closed,[11] and plans for a consulate in Leningrad were shelved.


that's all it took to close a consulate back then?



so what was going on with her

did she try to kill herself? was it attempt at murder?

did she know Dickstein was a spy?

what was Dickstein planning for her?

this is too complicated of an example probably (for agitprop example), if it is agitprop
