https://www.burr.senate.gov/press/releases/joint-statement-on-committee-inquiry-into-russian-intelligence-activities

On Jan. 13, 2017, Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Bur promised a sound investigation of "links between Russia and individuals associated with political campaigns," saying:
	Majority Leader McConnell and Democratic Leader Schumer have made it clear they expect any investigation into Russia’s involvement in our nation’s elections to be conducted in a bipartisan manner.  It is a charge the [Senate Intelligence Committee] takes seriously, as bipartisanship—in fact, non-partisanship—is at the very core of the Committee’s charter and is essential to preserving the intelligence equities involved.”

http://democrats-intelligence.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=211
On Jan. 25, 2017, the House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes likewise promised an investigation of "links between Russia and individuals associated with political campaigns," saying:
	This issue is not about party, but about country. The Committee will continue to follow the facts wherever they may lead.

https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/14/us/politics/russia-intelligence-communications-trump.html


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/trump-administration-sought-to-enlist-intelligence-officials-key-lawmakers-to-counter-russia-stories/2017/02/24/c8487552-fa99-11e6-be05-1a3817ac21a5_story.html



http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/white-house-communicated-members-congress-rebutting-russia-stories/story?id=45738051


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/14/us/politics/russia-intelligence-communications-trump.html

On Feb. 14, 2017, the New York Times reported that, in the course of the 2016 election, senior Russian intelligence officials had repeated contacts with "members of Donald J. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign and other Trump associates."


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/in-trumps-gop-sessions-rockets-from-the-fringe-to-prime-time/2016/07/18/1fc04d14-490b-11e6-acbc-4d4870a079da_story.html

http://www.reuters.com/article/us-otc-recusal-idUSKBN16102N

Notably, Attorney General Jeff Sessions was a key member of Trump's campaign, and is said to have a role in Trump's "inner circle." As head of the Justice Department, Sessions would have the ultimate say over the FBI's parallel probe into links between Trump associates' and Russian officials. Sessions has refused to recuse himself.



https://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2017/02/23/us/politics/ap-us-trump-russia.html

On Feb 23, 2017, the White House asked the FBI to publicly dispute the New York Times report. The FBI refused the request.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/trump-administration-sought-to-enlist-intelligence-officials-key-lawmakers-to-counter-russia-stories/2017/02/24/c8487552-fa99-11e6-be05-1a3817ac21a5_story.html

The next day, the Washington Post reported that the White House had enlisted three senior officials, including Sen. Richard Burr and Rep. Devin Nunes, to dispute the New York Times report and similar reports:

"Acting at the behest of the White House, the officials made calls to news organizations last week in attempts to challenge stories about alleged contacts between members of President Trump’s campaign team and Russian intelligence operatives."



http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/mcconnell-no-select-panel-needed-to-probe-russian-hacking/article/2610046

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had previously rejected calls for a special committee to investigate Russian interference in the election, on the grounds that Sen. Burr and Sen. Nunes are "responsible people":
	McConnell ... called the allegations of Russian hacking "a serious issue" but one that "doesn't require" a special committee to run the inquiry. He also suggested that only one panel, the Intelligence Committees in the House and Senate, needs to focus on such an investigation.

	"We have a Senate Intelligence Committee and a House Intelligence Committee, run by knowledgeable, responsible people," he said. "There's no question that the Russians were messing around in our election. It is a matter of genuine concern and it needs to be investigated."

http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/311136-mcconnell-says-no-select-committee-needed-to-investigate-russian-meddling
http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2017/02/15/team-trump-s-alleged-russian-contacts-blow-holes-in-white-house-denial.html
Following the Feb. 14th New York Times report, Sen. McConnell has said he has "no idea" if the Trump campaign had contact with Russian officials. The White House has denied any contact.

The House Intelligence Committee, Senate Intelligence Committee, and Justice Department investigations investigations are the only known investigations into the contacts between Russian intelligence officials and Trump's associates. Two of them are headed by officials complicit in a White House cover up of the contacts. The other is headed by an official who is all but certainly a subject of the investigations.


http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/mccain-has-more-hope-than-belief-that-gop-can-investigate-trump-white-house/article/2615265
Let us be clear: a reasonable person cannot expect Trump's associates' will be investigated or prosecuted under this arrangement. This is a subversion of our justice system. They have broken our system, or at least a part of it.

When the founders of our country wrote the constitution, they designed a system to ensure our government works for the people.


http://www.uscourts.gov/educational-resources/educational-activities/overview-rule-law


http://www.federalistblog.us/2008/10/freedom_of_speech_and_of_the_press/

http://www.billofrightsinstitute.org/founding-documents/primary-source-documents/the-federalist-papers/federalist-papers-no-10/


Democracy, rule of law, freedom of the press, peaceful assembly, right to bear arms.


http://thehill.com/homenews/senate/320119-mcconnell-no-idea-if-trump-team-had-russia-contacts


http://www.latimes.com/politics/la-na-pol-priebus-russia-20170219-story.html

http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2017/02/15/team-trump-s-alleged-russian-contacts-blow-holes-in-white-house-denial.html



https://www.usnews.com/news/politics/articles/2017-01-25/house-intelligence-committee-investigating-possible-connections-between-russia-trump-campaign



https://www.washingtonpost.com/powerpost/top-senate-republican-blunt-says-congress-should-probe-flynn-situation/2017/02/14/8abbcad4-f2d5-11e6-a9b0-ecee7ce475fc_story.html


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/01/burr-says-intel-panel-will-investigate-possible-russia-trump-links-233621 

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/01/house-intelligence-committee-russia-trump-234168









-----------------


There's a national feeling that our government doesn't care about us.

gerrymandering, wall street
 vietnam, iraq war?



That protest "doesn't work?"


But that's not true. Every protest, movement, writes a little more of our history.

the sentiment (against iraq war, suspicious of wall-street) entered the national consciousness. And that did mean something, change everybodies ideas of what America should be, do--even of our politicians.


a nation is more than it's government, laws

It's its national "spirit": attitudes, ideals

Who knows if we can change our laws or our government--maybe we can--but we should know we *can* change that.

The American revolution defined our national spirit, and changed the world.

It showed how many people believed in the American idea, no man above the law, government for the people, even enough to die for it.

More important than our constitution are the ideas behind it.



Freedom of the press was a new idea. Our president has forgotten freedom of the press, and why we have it.

But our press didn't. They have put in a dazzling amount of work to expose the corruption of this administration. We are lucky to have them.

no man is above the law was a radical idea for the time. It changed the world.

The director of the CIA, the head of the Senate Intelligence Commmitte, House Intelligence Commitee, the Attorney General, and the President have all tried to cover up what might be the biggest scandal of our lifetimes.

They have forgotten that no man is above the law.


democracy, law, press


maybe our government doesn't care about us anymore, or even our government not care about our values, but we will remind them that we care

----

Notes:




everything politicized, but not the constitution, founding ideals of the country

politicians roll their eyes at politicized protests. But when we hold them accountable to the founding ideals of our nation -- then they pay attention.

We can hold them accountable. They will give up power and let the law be applied, or admit they are tyrants.


We don't know if Trump or his administration are guilty of a crime or not. But we do know they are not subject to the same scrutiny as we are. No other Americans have the luxury of being investigated by prosecutors we get to appoint, or fire prosecutors we don't like.


http://time.com/money/4495707/occupy-wall-street-anniversary-effects/
occupy "did nothing?" bernie talked about "the 99%." we got a candidate. Would that have happened without occupy?

Bernie didn't win, but the movement grew. Showed it has real support.

And now everybody knows candidates don't need to rely on corporate donations alone to win. They can rely on the people. Bernie, and ultimately occupy, proved that. That changed politics (remember Biden wanted to run seeing Bernie's success with donations). Already, politics is changed forever.



Is the press changed after this? They have committed to holding the government accountable. They won't forget this. The press can change just like occupy wall-street, civil rights movement changed our country.


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/feb/15/iraq-war-mass-protest

What did the iraq war protests change?

Maybe now the government knows they should listen to the people, not do that again. "don't want another Bush" "don't want another Iraq"

	"It isn't only because of the anti-war movement but part of a general trend that people are less inclined to believe politicians and more inclined to take actions of their own."


Didn't Iraq change our idea of war itself? democracy as our greatest weapon, not firepower. Like with the Arab Spring.

I wonder if the Iraq war's unpopularity contributed to that?



Did the Boston tea party spark the American revolution?

Civil rights movement, women's suffrage changed our country forever.

The vietnam protests didn't end the war--how did they change the country?



http://content.time.com/time/specials/packages/article/0,28804,2096654_2096653_2096685,00.html
	During the first week of the occupation, some 300 people camped out, crafted a motto ("We Are the 99%") and organized small-scale marches to protest a system that they say bailed out the banks and left everyone else to fend for themselves. It was a message that resonated. Within a month, the Occupy movement gained momentum, spreading to cities across the U.S. and around the world. Though it's hard to say at this point what, if any, long-term effects the movement will have, efforts to silence the masses — such as mass arrests, evictions from protesters' strongholds, and in some cases, incidences of alleged police brutality — have so far only served to fuel the fire. After protesters were evicted from Zuccotti Park and other encampments across the country, Occupy Wall Street declared November 17 a Mass Day of Action. To commemorate the movement's two-month anniversary, protesters took to the streets in New York City and beyond to send a definitive message — It doesn't matter how long it takes, their voices will be heard.

Only started with 300 people camping out, then spread across the country.


what do I want?

To know no man is above the law. Know that we don't live under tyranny, won't accept it.

Will we live in a country where our leaders can be openly corrupt and get away with it?

We can choose national consciousness, norms

Let them know this is not the national spirit



government doesn't care about us anymore: gerrymandering, money in politics, removing peoples healthcare


we can change it: anti-gerrymandering laws and rulings, proof you can campaign on donations alone, healthcare hard to remove



https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/10/us/politics/us-attorney-justice-department-trump.html
Trump abruptly fires prosecutors

http://www.nbcnews.com/id/17801225/ns/politics-decision_08/t/clinton-opens-about-us-attorney-firings/
No woman is above the law either!


http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2017/03/10/white-house-flynn-made-a-personal-decision-not-to-follow-the-law-don-t-blame-us.html

The White House said Friday it wasn’t responsible for making sure Michael Flynn followed the law and that the decision was a personal one.


No your justice department is responsible for that.

The one lead by the perjurer you appointed.

Which you abruptly purged in the middle of one of the most massive scandals in history...


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/10/nyregion/preet-bharara-us-attorney.html?_r=0

And Trump also abruptly fired a top prosecutor he originally wanted to keep on? hmmm...


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/democracy-post/wp/2017/02/10/gerrymandering-is-the-biggest-obstacle-to-genuine-democracy-in-the-united-states-so-why-is-no-one-protesting/



---------


We should understand the magnitude of the current scandal in Washington. The Director of the CIA, the former National Security Advisor, two of the most powerful "Gang of Eight" Congressmen, and the head of the Department of Justice have all lied to conceal ties between the President's associates and Russian officials. These lies come while Russia continues an unprecedented attack on the United States and our allies, enabled, in part, by policies pushed for by this administration.

At the same time, members the President's staff, his campaign advisors, and the President himself all face criminal investigations or serious criminal allegations. The President's associates' ties to Russia are the subject of criminal investigations. Those who have been briefed were "taken aback" by the level of involvement.

And what does our government do?

At the time of their confirmation, nearly every powerful nominee for the President's cabinet faced a serious ethics problem, including allegations of quid-pro-quo, lying under oath, and close ties to Vladimir Putin, and investigations for drug trafficking, failure to register as a foreign agent, and improper payments from the Russian Government. Congress moved to kill the Office of Congressional Ethics and rush the nominees through before their ethics reviews could be completed. The President has expressed relief that the leaks exposing these ethics problems will stop, because "now we have our people in."

Fearing further leaks to the press, the President has ordered searches of White House staff's phones. Meanwhile, he has selectively blocked news agencies from his press briefings, calling the press "the enemy of the people." When he was questioned on the Russia investigation, the President's private security ordered reporters to "clear out the room." The head of the Justice Department has not ruled out side-stepping department guidelines to prosecute journalists for reporting on leaks.

But leaks to the press are what revealed that the Justice Department head, who was a close advisor to the President during his campaign, lied under oath about multiple meetings with the Russian ambassador, who is reported to be a spy. Though his denials should make him a subject of the Russia investigation, Justice Department officials have instead denied that he lied. Since then, the Justice Department has declined the FBI's request to reject the President's claim that he was illegally wiretapped, as well as requests to provide proof of this claim. A little over two weeks after the President fired the acting Attorney General, it was reported that the Justice Department is not expected to press charges against the former National Security Advisor for lying to the FBI about his contacts with the Russians, despite his resigning for telling the same lie to the Vice President. The President quietly altered the order of succession at the Justice Department to ensure the new acting Attorney General remains next-in-line.

The President has since, at the height of the Russia scandal, abruptly fired the remaining federal prosecutors from the previous administration. And the attorney who chose the President's Justice Department picks represents an organization with a long history of legal battles with the Justice Department, with multiple former members in prison. Despite this, the White House, Attorney General, and nominee for Deputy Attorney General have rejected repeated calls for an independent investigation. Top lawmakers have brushed off such calls, indicating they view the Russia scandal as a distraction and that they need the President to sign-off on their agenda. Congress can appoint an independent counsel at any time.

Interestingly, a confidant of the President has called for former Bush Attorney General Micheal Mukasey to be independent counsel. Mukasey is a close friend of a member of the President's inner-circle, and had previously promised to recuse himself from any investigations that involve him.

Congress has likewise rejected calls for a Congressional select Committee or independent commission to investigate the Russia scandal, deferring to the investigations in the House and Senate Intelligence committees. The heads of both committees were caught lying at the behest of the White House to dispute news reports of contacts between the President's associates and Russian intelligence officials.

Guilty or not, everything The President, his associates, the Department of Justice, and Congress have done point to trying to escape justice. 

And the truth is, they might.

The press have gone beyond the line of duty to ensure the public knows what's going on. By their efforts, the government-wide cover-up of this scandal has failed. The people want justice.

But if these officials don't want justice while holding power in every branch of our government, then justice will not be done. They will remain there, openly corrupt, for the next four years for the Executive, and the next two years for Congress, or longer, should campaign donations and gerrymandering favor the incumbent (as they usually do), or foreign powers realize new advantages in manipulating our elections (a corrupt administration friendly to Putin might help).

The natural question is, then: what can we do?

We can, generally, change our government in three ways: armed revolution, elections, or protest. Armed revolution is not a topic for this letter. Waiting for them to run their full terms isn't justice.

That leaves protest. Specifically, protest to convince our government to want justice, as we want justice.

Then, the natural followup question is: is protesting for this reason worth it? Could we actually convince our government to change their minds?

There's a popular feeling in this country that our government doesn't care about us. That our elected officials spend so much time and effort schmoozing with unpopular donors and gerrymandering their districts tells us how they feel about democracy and the will of the people. The Occupy protests fizzled out, and too-big-to-fail banks still get say in who can run for office. Millions of Americans rallied against the Iraq war in one of the largest movements in our history--it didn't stop the war. There's now a sentiment that movements and protests don't work. We can rally, march, and shout as loud as we want--our government has said back, implicitly or otherwise: "we don't care."

As it stands right now, our government shows little respect for democracy, shies away from the rule of law (particularly when applied to themselves), and ignores the will of the people--even for the most reasonable of requests. The "government for the people" and "justice for all" the founders of our nation fought to secure for us are dying.

Now here are, perhaps, some more unnatural questions: why are "government for the people" and "justice for all" ideas we've heard of before? Why do we feel these are things we ought to have in our country?

Interestingly enough, it started with a protest. The famous Boston Tea Party was organized by the Sons of Liberty, the underground movement that was the precursor to the American Revolution. These American revolutionaries wanted a better form of government for their countrymen, based on ideas like "all men have natural rights," "government should be for the people," "no man is above the law," and "all men are created equal." These ideas were radical for their time; most of the world then believed in "the divine right of kings," placing monarchs above the people and the law.

The early American revolutionaries spread these ideas to gain support for their movement. When the Revolutionary War broke out, these ideas helped win "hearts and minds" to their side. When America's founders wrote the constitution, these ideas guided the design of our government. As America grew in prosperity, these ideas were popularized throughout the entire world. Today, they are a part of our history, as well as world history, and continue to shape our beliefs about how government and society ought to be.

Our nation's founders said "we hold these truths to be self-evident," but the happiness and prosperity of our nation, guided by these ideals over the past 240 years, offers concrete proof.

The Civil Rights movement brought increased prosperity to all Americans while changing our nation's thinking about what "all men are created equal" means. Martin Luther King Jr. made these words from the Declaration of Independence a centerpiece of his "I have a dream" speech. Dr. King wasn't the first American to make the connection that "all mean are created equal" means ALL men: America's founders were among the first abolitionists. Before signing the Declaration of Independence, George Washington hadn't really questioned slavery. But the American Revolution changed him, and by the end of his life, he had arranged for all of his slaves to be freed. The American revolutionaries were changed by their own ideas, just as they inspired King and the Civil Rights movement. Dr. King continued the American Revolution.

Many consider the Civil Rights movement a success because it changed how our government works--legal segregation was ended. But consider what would have happened if they had changed the law and only the law. The next Congress might very well have voted segregation back in. Even with segregation illegal, a society that supports segregation is not a society where all men are treated as equals. Consider, instead, if they had changed Americans' minds but not the law. The next Congress would be voted in by people looking to see segregation stricken from the law, with candidates drawn from the same crowd. And Americans would know to treat each others as equals, despite the law. Changing Americans' minds mattered more than changing the government.

After her arrest for voting in the 1872 election, Susan B. Anthony gave a speech entitled "Is it a Crime for a U.S. Citizen Vote?" to all 29 towns and villages of Monroe County, New York, where her trial was to be held. Her speech was an appeal to America's founding principles:
	...And here, in this very first paragraph of the declaration, is the assertion of the natural right of all to the ballot; for, how can "the consent of the governed" be given, if the right to vote be denied. Again:

	"That whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute a new government, laying its foundations on such principles, and organizing its powers in such forms as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness."

	Surely, the right of the whole people to vote is here clearly implied. For however destructive in their happiness this government might become, a disfranchised class could neither alter nor abolish it, nor institute a new one, except by the old brute force method of insurrection and rebellion. One-half of the people of this nation to-day are utterly powerless to blot from the statute books an unjust law, or to write there a new and a just one. The women, dissatisfied as they are with this form of government, that enforces taxation without representation,-that compels them to obey laws to which they have never given their consent, -that imprisons and hangs them without a trial by a jury of their peers, that robs them, in marriage, of the custody of their own persons, wages and children,-are this half of the people left wholly at the mercy of the other half, in direct violation of the spirit and letter of the declarations of the framers of this government, every one of which was based on the immutable principle of equal rights to all. By those declarations, kings, priests, popes, aristocrats, were all alike dethroned, and placed on a common level politically, with the lowliest born subject or serf. By them, too, me, as such, were deprived of their divine right to rule, and placed on a political level with women. By the practice of those declarations all class and caste distinction will be abolished; and slave, serf, plebeian, wife, woman, all alike, bound from their subject position to the proud platform of equality.


Anthony won over the local population to such a degree that the prosecution moved her trial to another county, fearing a biased jury. Forty-eight years later, with a wave of popular support, state legislatures ratified the Nineteenth Amendment. Forty years later, the feminist movement taught Americans that women are deserving of not just legal equality, but social equality. Fifty-six years later, the President of the United States thinks disrespecting women is acceptable in our country. Four-point-two million people took to the streets to prove him wrong, in one of the largest protests in American history.

Guided by the enlightenment ideas of tolerance, our nation's founders designed our government "to [give] bigotry no sanction, to persecution no assistance." They saw America, as Madison put it, as promising "asylum to the persecuted and oppressed of every Nation and Religion." Even still, in their time the American public was fraught with violent religious conflict. Today, the United States President has enacted what he calls a "Muslim ban," while American citizens, in protest, cheer on American Muslims as they publicly pray--a reversal of roles. The founders' dream has been all but realized.

Our founders believed the ideals of liberty were for all nations, and had hoped America's example would inspire the world. They took pride in their belief that our nation would promote liberty abroad, not by force, but by the "countenance of her voice, and the benignant sympathy of her example." On this the founders were clear: "[America's] glory is not dominion, but liberty. Her march is the march of the mind. She has a spear and a shield: but the motto upon her shield is Freedom, Independence, Peace." When Americans joined in protest against the Iraq War--the largest protest in history--they showed that the American public, too, rejects the promotion of liberty by force.

Two hundred and thirty years ago, Madison proposed that our constitution be designed, in part, to protect the public from money influencing political decisions against the public good. Twenty-nine years later, Jefferson warned that the "aristocracy" of America's "monied corporations" could lead to the catastrophic "ruin of it's people." Eighty-six years later, Teddy Roosevelt rode a populist wave of "trust-busting." One hundred and nine years later, Occupy Wall Street rallied against income inequality, "too big to fail" banks and "money in politics," declaring "we are the 99%." Five years later, a previously unkown politician ran a viable presidential campaign on small donations alone, while popularizing the problems of income inequality and making "we are the 99%" a household phrase.

Much has been written about how the Occupy movement "didn't change anything." But they got a Presidential candidate. And his candidacy proved to the American public that a presidential campaign doesn't need wealthy donors, and might actually do better without them. This has not gone unnoticed in the political world, either. The Sanders campaign, and ultimately Occupy, have changed how our country thinks about politics forever.

It has been said that "protesting does nothing." That's not true: every protest, every movement writes a little more of our history.

The original American movement--the American Revolution--gave our nation government for the people, equality, natural rights, and the rule of law, and these ideas have guided our nation for the past 240 years. When our founders wrote our Constitution, they didn't just write these ideas down--they designed a system to preserve them. They gave us an independent judiciary to ensure that even the most powerful members of the government are subject to the rule of law, freedom of the press to ensure the public would be kept informed of misconduct of government officials, democratic elections to keep these officials accountable to the people, and freedom of assembly and petition to ensure the public's grievances and ideas would not be censored. The American system is designed to ensure that nobody, no matter how wealthy or powerful, can infringe upon the rights of any American. The purpose of the law, at it's core, is to protect these rights, and the Constitution is the highest law in the land.

Today, our leaders fight the freedom of the press, do everything in their power to avoid accountability to the people, and subvert the independence of our justice system. They, like the tyrants the early American revolutionaries first protested, have forgotten that they work for us, and that the law applies to them.

Maybe our government doesn't care about us anymore, or even about these ideas that have kept our country prosperous and free for all these years. But we can remind them that we care. We can remind them that government is for the people, and justice is for all.













A foreign power can collude illegally with an American's presidential campaign, lie, cheat, and steal to get him elected, replace every independent member of our Justice Department with loyalists, and get away with it. Short of Congress appointing a special prosecutor, there's little the rest of our government can do. And if any members of Congress are complicit too, they might not want to see justice.




 



But the Administration, for whatever reason, has allowed  select our new Department of Justice officials, who, so far, have demonstrated their loyalty. If there was a glimmer of hope for an independent Judiciary before, it is now gone: in the midst of what might be the biggest scandal of our lifetimes, the President has forced out or fired the Justice officials he did not appoint, while top lawmakers call for a "purge."


The magnitude of the current scandal:

CIA director, top Congresspeople leading Congress investigation, AG, and President have lied to cover this up. Head of DOJ had contact with Russians and lied about it under oath. DOJ picked by banker with a less than friendly relationship with the justice system. And, in the middle of all this, the president orders the remaining DOJ prosecutors he didn't pick to resign.

Trump shifting blame to Obama, Gingrich calling for a loyalist special prosecutor shows they are doing everything they can to get out of this.

Now lawmakers calling for a purge, Trump and sessions cleaning out the justice department, crackdown on leaks, leaks have slowed to a trickle. Even after the public knows they are corrupt, and fear justice, they could get away with it.

Thanks to the media, the public knows the administration is corrupt. But what can the public do?

Congress shares the blame. They could vote to choose an independent prosecutor. But they can gerrymander themselves into their seats (gerrymandinger favors the incumbent), and protect themselves from being "primaried." Campaign financing is a barrier to independents.

Meanwhile, Putin continues his invasion of Europe, thanks, in part, to the policies demanded by the incoming administration. And the government continues to push unpopular policies (take away healthcare for millions, depart immigrants and rip apart families).


The entire administration might be tainted. If Trump appointed a foreign agent to the NSC, we don't know for sure where the loyalties of the rest of his administration lie. Should the investigation lead to his resignation, any or all of them could lose their jobs.


Did Trump fire all the AG's investigating Exxon?
