update and ideas

I read a news report that said Congress has been fighting each other today, so just in case I contributed to that with the email I sent last night (e.g. the part about the op-eds), I want to say that writing an op-ed for IJR doesn't mean you're a spy or Russian stooge or anything. I think I can make a case that a particular Senator on the Intelligence Committee might be working with the Russians, and I noticed that Senator had written an op-ed for IJR back when it was even more obscure. At first I thought this would support my case, but I changed my mind when I noticed a lot of Senators had written for IRJ, and decided to point out all of them instead of that one Senator.

I think Russia has been trying to promote IJR, so politicians who have written op-eds for them should ask themselves: did anybody try to convince me to write for them? Who? What did they say? This might give more clues as to what Russia is up to.

Besides all that, I should explain more about what I know is going on and what I think is going on.

I got dragged into doing this (i.e. emailing thousands off people about what the Russians are up to) 7-8 months ago after I noticed Russia's "trolls" posting pro-Kremlin online. I would interact with them and try to get them to trip-up and reveal themselves, document it, and send what I found to various people. Wile I was doing this, I noticed allusions to my personal information being posted on websites the Russian trolls frequent (after clicking on a Google Docs link someone warned me not to click on...), and decided that what I was doing was actually having an impact, which motivated me to keep doing it take it more seriously.

Since then, I've built-up a working knowledge of Russia's propaganda in the print and social media. I will read as much as I can, taking notes about which media narratives are waxing and waning, who promotes them, and how they relate to events and goals that Russia might be interested in. By doing this, I've been able to come up with theories of what Russia is up to and "test" them by matching them up with the facts. In this way, I've been able to make educated guesses about what Russia hopes to accomplish and what they might do next.

Since a working knowledge of how Russia's propaganda works and the kind of things they say is helpful, I figured I could be helpful to people in the Government  and media in figuring out what the Russians are up to and guessing what they'll try next.

I should point out that it's very hard, if not impossible, to prove somebody is a Russian propagandist or prove the Russians are planning some specific plot with media reports alone. But things are moving very fast, and to counter the Russians you need to act, one way or another. Without time for proof, the best you can do is act on your best guess.

With that said, here is my best guess, so far, about what the Russians are up to:

We're being attacked by the KGB--either former KGB agents like Putin and his oligarchs, or current agents of the KGB under a different name. Since our enemy is the KGB, we should understand as much as we can about them: their culture, history, methods, capabilities, and current situation.

My understanding of Russia is that for a long time it's been an "intelligence state." The KGB has long kept power over Russian politics, media, and commerce, and they have kept that power by manipulating public opinion. To get a sense of it, look up the story of Kapiton Kuznetsov and his Gulag rebellion--the rebels and the Soviets almost immediately started waging a propaganda war against each other. I think using propaganda and manipulation in conflict is instinctive to the KGB and the Russians who are wise to their methods. It's become a part of their culture.

And, unlike our society, the KGB state has no checks and balances. Because of this, I think they are very susceptible to group think. With nobody to question their methods and their crazy schemes, I think they can and have operated in ways that would seem very strange to most of us.

And I think the KGB hates us. I suspect part of the reason is that the U.S. and other Western powers have thwarted their plots to dominate Europe. But another reason, which I believe has been underappreciated, is that so many KGB agents have defected to the West saying they were morally disgusted by the KGB's methods. To stem the tide of defections, KGB leadership would use propaganda on their own agents, telling them Western governments are hypocritical and no better than Russia's government. By saying that enough, I think they've come to believe it, making this belief a part of their culture. The KGB holds themselves together by hating us.

And the KGB is the Russian government. So if the KGB hates us, Russia hates us. And since they manipulate public opinion in Russia, that means a lot of the Russian people could end up hating us too.

So, to recap: the KGB runs Russia unchecked, they hate us, and they keep power and wage war by manipulating public opinion. I think these three observations help explain what they're doing today.

Consider the Russia's current situation: if they want to wage war against the United States, what's the best way for them to go about it? They have a weaker military and economy than us. But they do have something which we don't: a whole lot of spies with experience manipulating politics and public opinion. They have experience manipulating public opinion because they spend a great deal of effort doing this to their own citizens.

The Russian government, thinking as KGB agents do, are waging war on us they way they have an advantage and the way they know how: through spies, deception, and wide-scale manipulation.

I believe the illegals program and "subversives" a big part of this. Russia's illegals will live and work in American society, buy houses, and have children, almost indistinguishable from normal Americans, except they are taking orders and spying for the KGB. And they will train their children to be spies, essentially building-up a community of Russian spies in American society over generations.

The illegals program is in line with Russia's thinking of "weaponizing" immigration. In the past, the Soviet Union would relocate native Russians to other Soviet states in hopes this would give them more options to influence these states. And the KGB would have Soviet citizens act as informants on each other, essentially creating their own community of spies in the territories they control. Today, Russia has also been weaponizing immigration of Syrian immigrants to destabilize the European Union.

Depending on how Russia's illegals communicate with the KGB, it might be hard to detect them and even harder to prove they are spying in court. They can adapt their communication strategies to our laws, or even try to change our laws to suit them.

And, importantly, there are a lot of them. Using the declassified "Plan C" reports as a ballpark, if there were 13,000 illegals in the U.S. in 1957, you should expect there to be about 25,000 now following normal population growth rates from births and immigration. And if Russia has been sending illegals at a higher rate than the normal immigration rate, you should expect there to be even more than that. The "liberalization" of perestroika would make it easier for Russia to send more illegals.

The FBI has reported that some of the illegals they've caught were journalists. Having tens of thousands of illegals opens up opportunities to the KGB that most Americans would never think of, including the manipulation of public opinion on a mass scale.

Accordingly, it's not hard to find journalists in American media who consistently write articles and report the news in ways that help the Kremlin. But to find them, it helps to have an idea of what the KGB is up to.

As Bezmenov said, the KGB attacks countries by turning them against themselves. To do that, they have to divide the country's population, and ideological differences are the best way to divide a country. As far as I can tell, most of the KGB's work in America goes into increasing political polarization--driving Democrats further left, Republicans further right, and getting them to hate each other and fight each other as much as they can.

Besides making the United States more dysfunctional, the partisan divide opens up many opportunities for the KGB, with many detriments for America.

In partisan politics, there are three well-researched psychological phenomena the KGB can exploit, which I've watched them exploit: partisan motivated reasoning, partisan projection, and "the messenger overwhelming the message." You should be familiar with them.

Partisan motivated reasoning is the phenomenon where people who take politics personally will, no matter what facts they are presented with, will almost always come to the conclusion that the views of their political party are correct. In one experiment, there was a survey question that went something like this: "the Bureau of Labor Statistics have found that the labor participation rate dropped 5% under the Obama Administration. Did the number of employed Americans increase or decrease under the Obama Administration?" 60% of Democrats got the question wrong, even though the text of the survey question starts with the answer.

Partisan motivated reasoning is why, once an idea becomes politicized, no more progress on that idea can be made. For a coarse example, if staunch Republicans believe that "Republicans think man-made global warming is a myth and Democrats think it's real," it only takes one study that casts doubt on man-made global warming--even a fake one--for them to conclude it doesn't exist. No matter how much research says it's real, they will seek-out the studies that say otherwise. They aren't motivated by trying to find the truth, they are motivated by trying to prove their party's positions are right. Even if they honestly want to find the truth, they will struggle, because partisan motivated reasoning clouds people's reasoning at a subconscious level. Motivated reasoning is an inherent property of the human mind.

Because both sides of a politicized issue care more about their political ideology than the truth, no political partisan--which make up most of our government--will ever be able to accurately reason about a politicized issue. You might be able to see already how political polarization can gravely damage a country. Arguably, Al Gore did more damage to the planet than any other human being in history, simply by being the one to politicize global warming.

Partisan projection is the phenomenon where staunch partisans tend to believe other people think like them, "projecting" their partisan motivations on other people. Most people don't care much for politics, but those who do are more likely to be suspicious that others are acting with political motivations. To use the global warming example again, if a well-meaning scientist finds a flaw in a study showing evidence of man-made global warming and publishes it, staunch Democrats are likely to ignore it and accuse that scientist of "furthering the Republican agenda," even if her results would have been a crucial part of the human endeavour to understand the environment. Partisan projection makes it much harder for staunch partisans to accept or even listen to new ideas, and makes Republicans and Democrats less likely to trust and listen to each other and more likely to fight.

"The messenger overwhelming the message" is the more general phenomenon where people judge an idea not by it's own merits, but by who said it. If enough long-haired and smelly hippies tell you to "save the rainforest and hug a tree, man," you're more likely to brush them and convince yourself saving the rainforest is a stupid idea. If a scientist later tells you we need to preserve the rainforest to keep our planet habitable, you might believe him--if the annoying hippies haven't already turned you off on the whole thing and biased your thinking. In politics, partisans tend to reject an idea simply because members of the other party think it's a good one. Barrack Obama arguably has more influence over the GOP than any Republican--he can get them to dislike a policy simply by endorsing it.

These three effects give the KGB lots and lots of opportunities to manipulate our politicians and the politically-inclined of the American public, and they have the means, will, and capabilities to do so.

If the KGB wants to make it impossible for Republicans to accept reports that Trump is a Russian stooge, all they have to do is convince enough Republicans that that the USIC is "politicized." For example, you can see them blasting throughout American media that "Obama's leftist CIA is trying to undermine Trump!" Because of partisan projection, many Republicans will readily accept that the CIA is acting with political motivations, even though most CIA officers probably despise politics by now.

By assigning a political motive to our intelligence agencies in the political consciousness of the public, the KGB can make anything they say be viewed through the lens of "the messenger overwhelming the message," effectively silencing them for large portions of the American public. You can see them doing this right now with the FBI, accusing them of paying for "political research to undermine Trump." And because of partisan motivated reasoning, staunch Republicans will conclude that concerns about Trump's dealings with the Russians are overblown, and the USIC's reports are politically motivated ("Obama's CIA"), incorrect ("the same people who were wrong about Iraq!"), or misinterpreted ("Russian hysteria from the left-wing media!").

Actually, if the KGB wants Republicans to believe there is "Russian hysteria" in the left-wing media, they can simply keep placing hysterical articles about Trump's connections to Russia in left-wing publications to make this come true, and you can find evidence of them doing exactly that. This alone might be enough to convince Republicans that Russia's activities are nothing to be concerned about.

If the KGB doesn't want Congress to form a select committee or independent commission to investigate their activities, all they have to do is convince a polarizing political figure to call for one and trumpet it throughout the media ("BREAKING: NANCY PELOSI BLASTS TRUMP, DEMANDS INDEPENDENT COMMISSION"). Because of "the messenger overwhelming the message," Republicans and independents might become wary of calling for an independent investigation or grow to hate the idea, just by virtue of believing someone they distrust wants them same thing.

If the KGB wants to manipulate the GOP to start advocating on their behalf, all they have to do is get a spy or useful idiot from Trump's camp to change the GOP platform in the KGB's favor. Because of partisan motivated reasoning, enthusiastic Republicans will argue that the change was a good one. And it's easy for them point this out in the media if they want the Democrats among the American public to think the GOP has sold-out to the Kremlin. Because of partisan projection, proud Democrats will readily believe the GOP are all agents of the Kremlin and an enemy to be destroyed. And if the GOP takes this personally, they're already tumbling down the well. There are only two political parties in America that matter, and the KGB had to pick one.

I think this kind of manipulation is incredibly common and incredibly easy. Want Obama to stay out of Syria? Pose as a hardcore conservative and tell him his diplomacy is a joke and his Syria policy is weak--the easiest way to get somebody to believe a lie is to pretend you're crazy and tell them the truth. The Kremlin can win wars before they are even fought, simply by manipulating American politics.

It is very, very important for Americans, especially those in positions of power, to be cognizant of these ways of manipulation and avoid falling for them. Once an issue is politicized, progress on that issue stops, and there is plenty of evidence that the Russians are trying to politicize everything they can about their attack. If the Republicans and Democrats in Congress hope to succeed in investigating Russia's activities, it's not enough to just agree to work together--they have to change the way they think. They need to, as much as they can, stop seeing themselves as "Republicans" and "Democrats" and stop taking politics personally. If you get offended by criticisms of your political parties' ideology, you're tying yourself down--both parties have plenty of terrible ideas.

The Russians manipulate media on both sides of the political spectrum. Right now, it looks like Republicans have a much easier time spotting Russian propaganda coming from the left and Democrats have a much easier time spotting Russian propaganda coming from the right. Your choices are to learn to work together and listen to each other's ideas, or unlearn your own political biases. Both will take effort.
