
Hi again,

There was a lot wrong with when, why and how Trump fired then acting-attorney general Sally Yates, and a closer look suggests there's serious wrongdoing here. It's time to start building a case!

To recap: Trump fired Yates a few hours after a letter in her name directing the DOJ not to defend Trump's travel ban was leaked to the press. Meanwhile, Yates had warned the White House that Flynn was vulnerable to Russian blackmail and that the conduct during his calls was potentially criminal. Since Trump tasked Flynn with contacting the Russians (http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/michael-flynn-charged-making-false-statements-fbi-documents/story?id=50849354), Flynn discussed the election sanctions during the calls, and Flynn arranged a meeting between Trump and Putin during the calls, among other things, this could look bad for Trump. Whatever happened during the calls, right before Yates could arrange for the White House to review the underlying evidence, Yates was abruptly fired. Flynn stayed on the Trump admin for two more weeks.

That covers the when and how. The why is a little more interesting.

This doc (a draft) goes over Constitutional problems with the travel ban:

https://pastebin.com/Z0uwWFna

The gist is that:

- A lot of the court cases against the ban were a slam dunk (e.g. Doe v. Trump, Mohammed v. United States)

- The Constitutional problems with the ban raised in these cases were fundamental, severe, and easily foreseeable (equal protection for affected U.S. residents, due process for returning LPRs, due process for U.S. citizens bringing a non-citizen family member from overseas, discriminating on basis of religion).

- If keeping the ban up without any pauses (not even between signing and enforcement) was as important as Trump said it was, keeping the ban legally sound necessarily have been a top priority for the administration--a single temporary restraining order, by Trump's logic, would open the flood gates for "bad dudes" to "rush" into the country. (The ban got multiple temporary restraining orders within a few days).


Related to the last point, it's hard to argue Trump's travel ban team were always legal ignoramuses either: 


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LxKJ0FEoFqY
	Kelly: We did know the EO was coming. We had people people involved in the general drafting of it--you know--clearly this whole approach was part of what then candidate Trump talked about for a year or two so we knew all that was coming. As I said we had high level government lawyers from across the interagency to Homeland Security that were involved in the drafting of it 


https://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/trump-official-behind-the-end-of-daca-explains-himself
	A crucial role has also been played by a lesser-known figure: Gene Hamilton, a lawyer in his mid-thirties who works as a top aide to Sessions at the Justice Department. Federal officials, congressional staffers, advocacy groups, and think-tank researchers know that Hamilton has helped shape Trump’s various travel bans, changes to refugee policies, and the implementation of an aggressive new approach to immigration enforcement.

	...When he graduated from law school, in 2010, he was accepted into an honors program at D.H.S., and he eventually landed back at ICE, as a lawyer in the Office of Chief Counsel in Georgia. In February, 2015, he left ICE to work as the general counsel to Jeff Sessions, who was then the chairman of the Senate subcommittee on immigration. “I had a tremendous working relationship with then Senator Sessions, and we spoke on a nearly daily basis, if not multiple times a day,” Hamilton said during the deposition. In Sessions’s office, Hamilton met Stephen Miller, who was Sessions’s communications director at the time. In August, 2016, after Sessions had endorsed Donald Trump for President and Miller had begun writing speeches for the candidate, Hamilton volunteered to work for Trump’s transition team. When Trump won last November, Hamilton’s responsibilities increased. “I was generally the lead on development of all immigration-policy issues for the transition entity, and so everyone who worked on that reported to me,” he said. He oversaw a team of roughly a dozen people, and one of his jobs was to recommend appointees for agencies including D.H.S., ICE, and the Justice Department.


In other words, the ban was illegal, Trump's team had little excuse to let this happen and it's safe to say they knew it was illegal before Trump signed it.

With that in mind, this doc goes over some of the hard to explain things Trump's team did with the development and execution of the travel ban (the doc is a little rough but has some important points):


https://pastebin.com/Zksqd4NG

- Trump's team was working on the ban since the transition (see also: https://www.wsj.com/articles/white-house-defends-executive-order-barring-travelers-from-certain-muslim-countries-1485642323), indicating Trump's team had time to work out legal problems with the ban.

- The admin circumvented procedures to avoid submitting the executive order (EO) implementing the ban for legal review by Yates, and even instructed DOJ's OLC not to tell her about it (http://www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1705/19/acd.03.html). Yates didn't learn about the ban until after it was signed.

- Trump's public statements on the ban, including after it was signed, and the text of the EO itself undermined the administration's legal defense of the ban (part of the EO read like a negative stereotype of Muslims from Trump's stump speech on "Radical Islam," for example, and this fact was pointed to in court documents, see e.g. https://www.clearinghouse.net/chDocs/public/IM-MD-0004-0217.pdf pg 2).

- The way Trump's team implemented the ban led to more travellers barred from entry in law-breaking ways and led to this happening early on. The administration basically dropped the ban on the people responsible for implementing it without warning and initially without guidance, leading to chaos and confusion about who the ban even applied to at both Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and airlines. Early on, Trump's team told CBP and the public that the ban applied to lawful permanent residents (LPRs), leading directly to "slam dunk" court cases like Doe v. Trump (https://www.scribd.com/document/338047748/Doe-v-Trump), and eventually contributed to arguments in Washington v. Trump which ended the ban's enforcement for the rest of its lifetime. Since the ban was effective immediately, many of these cases were filed in the first two days of the ban.

- Since there was no pause between Trump signing the ban and its implementation, the legal battle around it was essentially fast-tracked; Yates had to make a decision on its constitutionality by Monday the 30th, before she could review the evidence in Flynn's calls with McGahn.

- The ban's fast roll-out likewise caused problems for those responsible for implementing it, but Trump was not able to offer a consistent explanation for why the ban had to be effective immediately after he signed it. Trump's explanation was that the ban had to be enacted without warning, or "bad people" would see a window to "rush in" to the country (http://www.latimes.com/politics/la-na-pol-trump-news-conference-transcript-20170216-story.html). But the Trump team's legal neglect predictably led to temporary restraining orders on the ban, creating the very windows for "the bad" to enter the country Trump claimed were so important to avoid. [more here: Hamilton statement on preparing for lawsuits? Trump I think saying sepcific countries later added to the list? Changing mind at Sherriffs convention. Kelly not being involved weirdness]




To sum this all up: the travel ban was unconstitutional, it's hard to argue Trump's team didn't know this, they signed it anyway without telling Yates, made its legal problems worse, then fired her for directing the DOJ not to defend it. Basically, Trump fired Yates for responding correctly to a problem he himself created. 

And this is made all the 



https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: Two meetings and then a phone call at the end to let him know...
 
	WHITEHOUSE: That the material was available if he wanted to see it.
 
	YATES: ... that the material was available. He had to call me back. He was not available then and I did not hear back from him until that afternoon of Monday the 30th.
 
	WHITEHOUSE: And that was the end of this episode, nobody came over to look at the material?
 
	YATES: I don't know what happened after that because that was my last day with DOJ.
