

It looks like Trump had some less than honest reasons to fire Acting AG Yates:


http://www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1705/19/acd.03.html
	COOPER: Do you agree there was no legal issue with Flynn's underlying behavior?

	YATES: I don't know how the White House reached the conclusion that there was no legal issue. It certainly wasn't from my discussion with them.


https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-russia/trump-adviser-had-five-calls-with-russian-envoy-on-day-of-sanctions-sources-idUSKBN14X1YX
	Trump adviser had five calls with Russian envoy on day of sanctions: sources

	...The calls occurred between the time the Russian embassy was told about U.S. sanctions and the announcement by Russian President Vladimir Putin that he had decided against reprisals, said the sources. They spoke on condition of anonymity, citing internal U.S. government deliberations about the issue. 


http://www.cbsnews.com/news/michael-flynn-in-frequent-contact-with-russias-ambassador-to-u-s/
	Spicer also mentioned another contact on Dec. 28, which was the day before the sanctions were announced. He said that on Dec. 28, Flynn texted and called Kislyak to discuss the logistics of setting up a phone call between the president-elect and Russian President Vladimir Putin after Inauguration.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/michael-flynn-charged-making-false-statements-fbi-documents/story?id=50849354
	...shortly after the election, ... President-elect Trump directed Flynn to contact Russian officials on topics that included working jointly against ISIS. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/national-security-adviser-flynn-discussed-sanctions-with-russian-ambassador-despite-denials-officials-say/2017/02/09/f85b29d6-ee11-11e6-b4ff-ac2cf509efe5_story.html
 	National security adviser Flynn discussed sanctions with Russian ambassador, despite denials, officials say 

	...“Kislyak was left with the impression that the sanctions would be revisited at a later time,” said a former official.


http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/316696-russia-trump-putin-discuss-coordination-against-isis
	Trump, Putin discuss 'coordination' against ISIS

	...The two leaders spoke for the first time since Trump’s inauguration in a phone call around noon Eastern time.

	Hours later, the White House echoed the Russian government, saying both men agreed on the need for "mutual cooperation in defeating ISIS."


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: Right, so that that would not have a negative impact on the FBI investigation at that point.

	And there was a request made by Mr. McGahn, in the second meeting as to whether or not they would be able to look at the underlying evidence that we had that we had described for him of General Flynn's conduct. And we told him that we were inclined to allow them to look at that underlying evidence, that we wanted to go back to DOJ and be able to make the logistical arrangements for that. This second meeting on the 27th occurred late in the afternoon, this is Friday the 27th. So we told him that we would work with the FBI over the weekend on this issue and get back with him on Monday morning. And I called him first thing Monday morning to let him know that we would allow them to come over and to review the underlying evidence.

	YATES: There was the phone call initially to let him know I needed to come see him.

	WHITEHOUSE: Yeah?

	YATES: Two meetings and then a phone call at the end to let him know...

	WHITEHOUSE: That the material was available if he wanted to see it.

	YATES: ... that the material was available. He had to call me back. He was not available then and I did not hear back from him until that afternoon of Monday the 30th.

	WHITEHOUSE: And that was the end of this episode, nobody came over to look at the material?

	YATES: I don't know what happened after that because that was my last day with DOJ.


He said he fired her for how she handled his travel ban, but some things are off with that too.

According to this, Trump's original travel ban was unconstitutional (read this first):

https://pastebin.com/Z0uwWFna


With all that in mind, it's easier to get why Yates couldn't defend the ban in court:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/	
	YATES: But my concern was not an INA concern here. It, rather, was a constitutional concern, whether or not this -- the executive order here violated the Constitution, specifically with the establishment clause and equal protection and due process.

	...YATES: Right. And there were a number of important distinctions between travel ban one and travel ban two. At the time I had to make my decision for example, the executive order still applied to green card holders, lawful permanent residents and those who had visas.

	There were a number of other distinctions as well. And look, let me say ...

	...KENNEDY: Well, I want to be sure I understand. Do you believe it's constitutional or unconstitutional?

	YATES: I believed -- I was not convinced that it was constitutional. I believed that it was unconstitutional in the sense that there was no way in the world I could send folks in there to argue something that we didn't believe to be the truth.

	KENNEDY: So you believe it's unconstitutional?

	YATES: Yes.


Trump put her in a position where she had to choose between lying to argue against her own Constitution and keeping her job. (Although you wouldn't get that impression from her letter to the DOJ that got leaked https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/01/30/us/document-Letter-From-Sally-Yates.html)

If Trump really wanted someone to defend his ban, Yates' wasn't a good choice. Yates and Trump have very different views:


http://www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1705/19/acd.03.html
	COOPER: Yes. The idea of a direct of the FBI being asked for some sort of a loyalty pledge. The White House says that President Trump did not asked him for loyalty. There are reports thought that was become asked in that dinner. Is that appropriate?

	YATES: No. Not to him individually. Our loyalty at the department of justice should be to the people of the United States and to the law and the constitution and no one and nothing else.

	COOPER: Why is that? Why isn't loyalty to the President something that should be pledged?

	YATES: Because our oath is to uphold the constitution and the law.


https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2017/12/19/what-kind-country-we-speak-out-core-american-values-sally-q-yates-column/951828001/
	Sally Yates

	...Despite our differences, we as Americans have long held a shared vision of what our country means and what values we expect our leaders to embrace. Today, our continued commitment to these unifying principles is needed more than ever.

	What are the values that unite us? You don’t have to look much further than the Preamble to our Constitution, just 52 words, to find them: 

	“We the people of the United States” (we are a democratic republic, not a dictatorship) “in order to form a more perfect union” (we are a work in progress dedicated to a noble pursuit) “establish justice” (we revere justice as the cornerstone of our democracy) “insure domestic tranquility” (we prize unity and peace, not divisiveness and discord), “provide for the common defense” (we should never give any foreign adversary reason to question our solidarity) “promote the general welfare” (we care about one another; compassion and decency matter) “and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity” (we have a responsibility to protect not just our own generation, but future ones as well).

	Our forefathers packed a lot into that single sentence. Our Bill of Rights is similarly succinct in guaranteeing individual liberties — rights that we have come to take for granted but without vigilance can erode and slip away, such as freedom of speech (our right to protest and be heard); freedom of religion (the essential separation between how one worships and the power of the state); and freedom of the press (a democratic institution essential to informing the public and holding our leaders accountable).

	Our shared values include another essential principle, and that’s the rule of law — the promise that the law applies equally to everyone, that no person is above it


https://cases.justia.com/federal/district-courts/virginia/vaedce/1:2017cv00116/358386/111/0.pdf?ts=1487078541
        Stahl: [S]o you're changing ... your position.
 
        Trump: --No, I--call it whatever you want. We'll call it territories, OK?
 
        Stahl: So not Muslims?
 
        Trump: You know--the Constitution--there's nothing like it. But it doesn't necessarily give us the right to commit suicide as a country, OK? And I'll tell you this. Call it whatever you want, change territories [sic], but there are territories and terror states and terror nations that we're not gonna allow the people to come into our country.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/31/politics/sally-yates-jeff-sessions-deputy-attorney-general-hearing/index.html
	"But if the views the President wants to execute are unlawful, should the attorney general or the deputy attorney general say no?"

	Yates replies: "Senator, I believe the attorney general or the deputy attorney general has an obligation to follow the law and the Constitution and to give their independent legal advice to the President."


http://time.com/4829572/white-house-loyal-staff/
	President Trump's Obsession With Loyalty Is Bad for the White House


https://www.intelligence.senate.gov/sites/default/files/documents/os-jcomey-060817.pdf
	January 27 Dinner
	
	...A few moments later,the President said, “I need loyalty,I expect loyalty.” I didn’t move, speak, or change my facial expression in any way during the awkward silence that followed.We simply looked at each other in silence.  

	...At one point, I explained why it was so important that the FBI and the Department of Justice be independent of the White House.

	...Near the end of our dinner, the President returned to the subject of my job, saying he was very glad I wanted to stay, adding that he had heard great things about me ...He then said, "I need loyalty."


http://www.latimes.com/politics/la-na-pol-trump-news-conference-transcript-20170216-story.html
	TRUMP: ...Yes, we're looking at them very -- very, very serious. I've gone to all of the folks in charge of the various agencies and we're -- I've actually called the Justice Department to look into the leaks. Those are criminal leaks. They're put out by people either in agencies -- I think you'll see it stopping because now we have our people in. You know, again, we don't have our people in because we can't get them approved by the Senate.

	We just had Jeff Sessions approved. Injustice, as an example (ph). So, we are looking into that very seriously.


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/826229971584708608
	Donald J. Trump

	The Democrats are delaying my cabinet picks for purely political reasons. They have nothing going but to obstruct. Now have an Obama A.G.

	4:45 PM - 30 Jan 2017 



Jeff Sessions was confirmed 12 days later (52-47 along party lines https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/02/08/us/politics/jeff-sessions-confirmation-vote.html), and Trump was originally willing to wait a month to start enforcing the ban:


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/826060143825666051
	Donald J. Trump

	If the ban were announced with a one week notice, the "bad" would rush into our country during that week. A lot of bad "dudes" out there!

	5:31 AM - 30 Jan 2017 


http://www.latimes.com/politics/la-na-pol-trump-news-conference-transcript-20170216-story.html
	TRUMP: ...Now, what I wanted to do was do the exact same executive order, but said one thing. I said this to my people. Give them a one-month period of time. But Gen. Kelly, now Sec. Kelly, said if you do that, all these people will come in and (inaudible) the bad ones.

	You do agree there are bad people out there, right? That not everybody that's like you. You have some bad people out there.

	Kelly said you can't do that. And he was right. As soon as he said it I said wow, never thought of it. I said how about one week? He said no good. You got to do it immediately because if you do it immediately they don't have time to come in.

	Now nobody ever reports that. But that's why we did it quickly.

	Now, if I would've done it a month, everything would've been perfect. The problem is we would've wasted a lot of time, and maybe a lot of lives because a lot of bad people would've come into our country.


You'd think Trump would figure he had a better chance of getting his ban passed through courts if he waited for his AG pick to be in. And getting the ban passed the first time would be a priority for Trump: if a court order blocks it, "bad people" would have advance warning of the ban and a window to "rush in" to the country.

But Trump didn't even run the ban past Yates:


https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/codification/executive-order/11030.html
    (b) If the Director of the Office of Management and Budget approves the proposed Executive order or proclamation, he shall transmit it to the Attorney General for his consideration as to both form and legality.
 
    (c) If the Attorney General approves the proposed Executive order or proclamation, he shall transmit it to the Director of the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration: Provided, that in cases involving sufficient urgency the Attorney General may transmit it directly to the President; and provided further, that the authority vested in the Attorney General by this section may be delegated by him, in whole or in part, to the Deputy Attorney General, Solicitor General, or to such Assistant Attorney General as he may designate.
 
    (d) After determining that the proposed Executive order or proclamation conforms to the requirements of Section 1 of this order and is free from typographical or clerical error, the Director of the Office of the Federal Register shall transmit it and three copies thereof to the President.
 
    (e) If the proposed Executive order or proclamation is disapproved by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget or by the Attorney General, it shall not thereafter be presented to the President unless it is accompanied by a statement of the reasons for such disapproval.

 
http://www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1705/19/acd.03.html
    ...COOPER: You're the acting attorney general of the United States of America.
 
    YATES: Right.
 
    COOPER: And you did not know about this executive order.
 
    YATES: That's right.
 
    COOPER: The department of justice has an office of legal counsel and they had been asked to weigh in on this executive order.
 
    YATES: They have been asked to review to review for that is called form and legality.
 
    COOPER: If the department of justice, their office of legal counsel was given a heads up so to speak about this and asked to review it, wouldn't they have given you head's up about it?
 
    YATES: Normally, they would. But my understanding is that they were asked not to tell us about it.
 
    COOPER: The department of justice's office of legal counsel was advised not to inform you specifically, the acting attorney general about this executive order.
 
    YATES: That's my understanding.
 
    COOPER: Do you know why you were not informed?
 
    YATES: I don't know. And I wasn't informed.
 
    COOPER: Is that normal procedure?
 
    YATES: No. First I heard of that.
 
    COOPER: You never heard it happening before.
 
    YATES: No.


If Trump really wanted the DOJ to defend his ban in court, why didn't he wait for a more "loyal" attorney general? And if he really wanted the ban to get through courts, if it's a matter of national security to get it right the first time, why didn't he run it by the attorney general before signing it? And why sign an EO with so many legal problems in the first place?

Trump's administration acted in ways to make the ban harder to pass in courts after it was signed, too, some of which our outlined here (although it's a little rough):

https://pastebin.com/Zksqd4NG

There's actually a lot more weird things going on with the travel ban. I'll send you more later. It would be nice to know what's going on here, for example:

https://pastebin.com/eQ6iA1tw


But it does look like Trump never wanted his EO to pass. By all indications, he wanted to use it as an alibi to fire his acting Attorney General.
