http://thehill.com/policy/national-security/309086-trump-cuts-ties-with-flynn-jr
	Trump cuts ties with Flynn Jr.
	12/06/16


	Donald Trump's transition team on Tuesday severed ties with the son of the president-elect’s pick for national security adviser amidst scrutiny of retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn’s habitual promotion of conspiracy theories.

	The break, reportedly a direct order from Trump himself, came after Michael Flynn Jr. in a Twitter post on Sunday suggested a made-up story about a child sex ring at a Washington pizzeria was true.

	Earlier that day, a gunman who believed the hoax had gone to the popular neighborhood restaurant and fired shots.

	The incident put a violent twist on the long-simmering debate over the power of fake news — and raised concerns about the man about to take on one of the most powerful positions in the country’s national security apparatus.

	Both Flynn and his son have pushed unsubstantiated stories linking Hillary Clinton to underage sex rings, providing no evidence to support their claims.


interesting... Trump unhappy with Flynn Jr., what about Flynn?

	Even after the shooting, Flynn Jr. — who at the time had an official transition team email address and was assisting his father in the transition process — continued to promote the “Pizzagate” hoax.

	“Until #Pizzagate proven to be false, it'll remain a story. The left seems to forget #PodestaEmails and the many “coincidences” tied to it,” he tweeted Sunday night.


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/06/us/politics/michael-flynn-son-trump.html
	By MATTHEW ROSENBERG, MAGGIE HABERMAN and ERIC SCHMITT DEC 6, 2016

	For now, General Flynn appears to be weathering the criticism, which has been far harsher than that directed at other Trump nominees, by keeping a relatively low profile since the election. He has not given interviews — he did not respond to requests for comment — and he has kept his Twitter posts relatively tame, publishing patriotic messages on Veterans Day and more recently praising Mr. Trump’s selection of Gen. James N. Mattis, a retired Marine, for defense secretary.

Haberman saying Flynn "kept it tame," conflicting reports


-----


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/12/michael-flynn-conspiracy-pizzeria-trump-232227
 	Flynn under fire for fake news

	A shooting at a D.C. pizza restaurant is stoking criticism of the conspiracy theories being spread by Donald Trump’s pick for national security adviser.

	By Bryan Bender and Andrew Hanna

	12/05/2016 07:13 PM EST

	But Flynn himself has used social media to promote a series of outrageous conspiracy theories about Hillary Clinton, President Barack Obama and their inner circles in recent months — pushing dubious factoids at least 16 times since Aug. 9, according to a POLITICO review of his Twitter posts. Flynn, who has 106,000 Twitter followers, has used the platform to retweet accusations that Clinton is involved with child sex trafficking and has "secretly waged war” on the Catholic Church, as well as charges that Obama is a “jihadi” who “laundered” money for Muslim terrorists.

	Now some say Flynn’s fondness for spreading fake news casts doubt on his fitness to serve as the White House’s national security adviser, suggesting that he either can’t spot a blatant falsehood or is just ideologically bent to believe the worst of his perceived enemies.

	The flak began flying anew after Sunday’s shooting at a Washington pizza restaurant that had been targeted by false, internet-fed rumors accusing it of being the epicenter of a satanic child-trafficking conspiracy involving Clinton and her allies. Flynn had twice used Twitter to promote similar, only slightly less outrageous hoaxes in the past month, including a claim that Clinton’s campaign manager takes part in occult rituals in which bodily fluids are consumed.


so question then: why did Trump fire Flynn Jr. and not Flynn?


------


http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1607/18/se.04.html

	FLYNN: We are just beginning. I promise you, I promise you that Donald Trump, Donald Trump knows that the primary role of the president is to keep us safe.

	FLYNN: He recognizes -- he recognizes the threats we face and is not afraid to call them what they are. Donald Trump's leadership, decision-making and problem-solving abilities will restore America's role as the undeniable and unquestioned world leader. 


well Flynn does kiss his ass


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2017/02/14/michael-flynns-speech-at-the-republican-national-convention-predicted-his-demise/
	The reasons President Trump picked Michael Flynn for national security adviser were pretty well known: The retired lieutenant general had experience in the murky world of U.S. intelligence, and, perhaps more important, was a fiercely loyal voice on the campaign trail — a supporter who hopped on board before it was popular.

	That early loyalty got Flynn a prime speaking spot at the Republican National Convention in July. And looking back on that speech now, Flynn had pretty strong thoughts about a certain government official mishandling intelligence.


http://www.militarytimes.com/articles/flynn-investigated-by-army-for-wrongly-sharing-intelligence
	WASHINGTON — The retired Army general chosen by Donald Trump to be national security adviser was investigated for inappropriately sharing classified information with foreign military officers while he was serving as an intelligence commander in Afghanistan.

	Army documents that were made public Wednesday by the Washington Post and obtained by The Associated Press concluded that while some intelligence was wrongly shared by Michael Flynn, it was "not done knowingly."

	No action was taken against Flynn, who was a major general serving as the deputy chief of staff for intelligence in the Afghanistan war when the investigation was done in 2009-2010. 


forgot about this


https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-12-16/trump-security-aide-flynn-has-deep-ties-to-defense-contractors
	Trump Security Aide Flynn Has Deep Ties to Defense Contractors
	By David Kocieniewski 


https://twitter.com/davidkski

https://twitter.com/jimdwyernyt/status/881177589246722050

this guy likes to cover Flynn?

not sure maybe not trustworthy?

were Russians doing hitpeices on Flynn? would be interesting. I guess would want to get at Pence then? not sure


http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/politics/ct-trump-flynn-brainwave-science-kgb-20161223-story.html
	President-elect Donald Trump's nominee for national security adviser partnered in recent months with a technology company co-led by a businessman who pleaded guilty to trying to sell stolen scientific material in the 1980s to the KGB, the former Soviet intelligence service.

	Retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn joined the advisory board of Brainwave Science in February, company documents show. The Massachusetts firm develops controversial "brain fingerprinting" technology designed to assess whether people under interrogation are being truthful by measuring their brain waves. The firm offers training in how to use the technology, in partnership with Flynn's consulting firm, Flynn Intel Group, according to Brainwave's website.


all this weird shit with Flynn


http://www.npr.org/2016/12/08/504792292/a-closer-look-at-michael-flynn
 	December 8, 20165:01 AM ET 
	INSKEEP: And somewhat different in fact, sharply different from what his new boss, President-elect Trump has been saying about Russia, downplaying many of these.

	BOWMAN: Absolutely. You know, Trump has said he admires Putin. He's a great leader, but people like Mike Flynn are going to tell him, listen, we have great deal of concerns about Russia.


he is? really?

------

http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/pence-skates-around-questions-about-security-clearance-for-flynns-son/article/2609015
	Vice President-elect Mike Pence, overseeing President-elect Trump's transition team, skirted around a reporter's question on Tuesday alleging incoming national security adviser Michael Flynn had requested a security clearance for his son, Michael G. Flynn.

	CNN's Jake Tapper asked Pence seven times during the interview if Flynn Jr., known for erratic tweets about conspiracy theories, was involved in the transition process or another component of the administration. Tapper cited a new report claiming Trump had personally insisted the lieutenant general's son no longer help his father.

	"His son was helping him a bit with scheduling and administrative items. But that's no longer the case. Look, all of our families want to be helpful, and four weeks to the day from Election Day, there has been an awful lot of work to do," Pence said. "But Mike Flynn Jr. is no longer associated with General Flynn's efforts or with the transition team and we're focused eyes forward."


something else going on with Flynn's son? asked for security clearance for him?

	But when Tapper asked if Flynn Jr.'s helping with scheduling required him having a security clearance and again if Pence was aware his father had requested credentials, Pence repeated his previous responses that the son had helped his father with administrative tasks and pushed Tapper to move on.


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/07/donald-trump-general-michael-flynn-vp-225253
	The New York Post earlier this week reported that Flynn is being actively vetted, which the retired general did not deny. “One of the things I expect Mr. Trump would look for in a vice president is discretion,” Flynn told the paper. Trump sources said Flynn was actively under consideration but declined to say whether he is being vetted.


so Trump likes generals, wanted him to be VP, but otherwise there doesn't seem to be a personal relationship there really?


	In December, he told a congressional committee that there are “some who abuse the system so badly that it makes corrupt governments in Third World nations blush.” He went so far as recommending that “half or more” of the civilian workforce in the Pentagon be let go, amounting to some 400,000 government jobs — a proposal bordering on sacrilege in D.C.’s corridors of power.


What if Flynn was a Russian spy instead of useful idiot? mostly struck me as a useful idiot

maybe its kindof a spectrum

didn't seem very competent with the abortion interview thing

another thing is could have been a double agent?

Comey did mention turning him I think

like once caught lying to FBI, maybe could switch?

who knows

------

http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/trump-asks-retired-gen-mike-flynn-be-national-security-adviser-n685676
	Trump Asks Retired Gen. Mike Flynn to Be National Security Adviser: Source


------

http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-trump-advisor-idUSMTZSAPEC2Q6G3JRH
	Trump being advised by ex-U.S. Lieutenant General who favors closer Russia ties
	
	Intel | Fri Feb 26, 2016 | 6:04pm EST 


    	"Right now we have essentially the U.S. strategy and we have a Russian strategy in the region that does not appear to be in line with each other. And I think we have to step back and try to figure out how do we align those," Flynn told Russia Today.     


so nothing amazing here

started advising Trump somehow, maybe early 2016

seems to be more like a professional relationship


------

https://newrepublic.com/article/142769/donald-trump-cant-quit-michael-flynn
	Why Donald Trump Can’t Quit Michael Flynn
	The president and his former national security advisor have a mysterious bond. Is it just because Trump values loyalty, or something more sinister?
	By Jeet Heer
	May 18, 2017

	Last month, President Donald Trump called his former national security advisor, Michael Flynn, and gave him a simple message: “Stay strong.” This bears an eerie resemblance to a conversation, more than four decades ago, between another scandal-ridden president and a fired staffer under investigation. On April 30, 1973, Richard Nixon fired his chief of staff, H.R. Haldeman, and called him later that day to say, “But let me say you’re a strong man, goddammit, and I love you.” In the context of the unfolding Watergate scandal, the meaning of Nixon’s words were clear: “Stay loyal, don’t testify against me.”


lol

oh lord

	The question is: Why are Trump and Flynn so loyal to each other? Innocent and sinister possibilities abound.

are they? fired his son, so that's kindof weird right?

and switched him out at the last minute for Pence


	Days after Flynn’s resignation, Trump met with then-FBI Director James Comey. According to Comey’s notes from that meeting, Trump told him about the investigation into Flynn and said, “I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go.” Finally, on multiple occasions since Flynn left his post, Trump has asked White House lawyers if he could contact Flynn. Trump was repeatedly told that it would be inappropriate, but he ignored legal counsel and called Flynn in April to say, “Stay strong.”


So right, saying Trump could just be amazing buddies with Flynn, or Trump thinks investigation into Flynn would get him

	The idea that Trump would show “supreme loyalty” to anything other than his own best interests is laughable. Trump is a thrice-married man who has repeatedly betrayed those who have done business with him. During an inheritance battle, he cut off health insurance for a nephew’s chronically ill child. When Trump’s mentor Roy Cohn contracted AIDS, Trump cut him off from his life. Trump is not, in other words, a many for whom loyalty is a value in and of itself. 


right, Trump only cares about himself

	But we must also consider Trump’s depraved character, and the fact that Flynn is under investigation for something that could easily entangle Trump’s administration, perhaps even bring down the president himself. Given this, perhaps there’s a more sinister reason for Trump’s fierce loyalty. When he tells Flynn to “stay strong,” the message might simply be: “No snitching.”


also by Jeet Heer:

https://newrepublic.com/article/143471/defense-nancy-pelosi
	In Defense of Nancy Pelosi
	The Democratic leader isn't responsible for Jon Ossoff's loss, and her value to the party is being obscured amid the recriminations.


https://newrepublic.com/article/143391/democrats-can-restore-faith-political-process
	Only Democrats Can Restore Faith in the Political Process

heh

https://newrepublic.com/article/143040/hr-mcmaster-foolish-trust-trumps-generals
	H.R. McMaster and the Foolish Trust in Trump’s “Generals”
	The active-duty national security adviser is covering for a scandalous presidency. Is he tarnishing his reputation, or is his reputation overrated?
	By Jeet Heer


http://talkingpointsmemo.com/livewire/cnn-russians-bragged-flynn-relationship-influence-trump
	Russian officials bragged during the 2016 presidential campaign that they could use a cultivated relationship with Michael Flynn, then one of Donald Trump’s top advisers, to influence Trump, CNN reported on Saturday.

	Russian officials claimed they had cultivated a strong relationship with Flynn and thought they could use it to influence the GOP candidate and his team, according to CNN’s report, which cited unnamed current and former government officials.

	One unnamed former official in President Barack Obama’s administration told CNN that “the way the Russians were talking about” Flynn was a “five-alarm fire from early on.”


so Russians are saying different things


------
