https://techcrunch.com/2014/02/14/how-the-world-butchered-benjamin-franklins-quote-on-liberty-vs-security/
	How The World Butchered Benjamin Franklin’s Quote On Liberty Vs. Security
	
	Posted Feb 14, 2014 by Gregory Ferenstein (@ferenstein)

	...As the Brookings Institute’s Benjamin Wittes observes, “Very few people who quote these words, however, have any idea where they come from or what Franklin was really saying when he wrote them.”

	Despite its many (many) variations, this is the actual quote:

    		Those who would give up essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor Safety.

	According to Wittes, the words appear in a letter widely presumed to be written by Franklin in 1755 on behalf of the Pennsylvania Assembly to the colonial governor. “The letter was a salvo in a power struggle between the governor and the assembly over funding for security on the frontier, one in which the assembly wished to tax the lands of the Penn family,” he explains.

	The letter wasn’t about liberty but about taxes and the ability to “raise money for defense against French and Indian attacks. The governor kept vetoing the assembly’s efforts at the behest of the family, which had appointed him.”

	Indeed, if you look at the text surrounding the famous quote, it’s pretty clearly about money: “Our assemblies have of late had so many supply bill, and of such different kinds, rejected, on various pretences,” wrote Franklin.

	There’s not much on liberty, as we understand the concept, in the entire letter.


Interesting


https://www.lawfareblog.com/what-ben-franklin-really-said#.UvvR12RDtZs
	What Ben Franklin Really Said
	By Benjamin Wittes
	Friday, July 15, 2011, 6:53 AM

       Here's an interesting historical fact I have dug up in some research for an essay I am writing about the relationship between liberty and security: That famous quote by Benjamin Franklin that “Those who would give up essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor Safety” does not mean what it seems to say. Not at all.

	I started looking into this quotation because I am writing a frontal attack on the idea that liberty and security exist in some kind of "balance" with one another--and the quotation is kind of iconic to the balance thesis. Indeed, Franklin's are perhaps the most famous words ever written about the relationship. A version of them is engraved on the Statue of Liberty. They are quoted endlessly by those who assert that these two values coexist with one another in a precarious, ever-shifting state of balance that security concerns threaten ever to upset. Every student of American history knows them. And every lover of liberty has heard them and known that they speak to that great truth about the constitution of civilized government--that we empower governments to protect us in a devil’s bargain from which we will lose in the long run.


Wittes attacking Benjamin Franklin quote liberty/security ideal, maybe trying to take a pro-surveillance stance?

	Very few people who quote these words, however, have any idea where they come from or what Franklin was really saying when he wrote them. That's not altogether surprising, since they are far more often quoted than explained


that's not altogether pompous and condescending

wait

yes it is


http://franklinpapers.org/franklin/framedVolumes.jsp?vol=6&page=238a
	Our Assemblies have of late had so many Supply Bills, and of such different Kinds, rejected on various Pretences; Some for not complying with obsolete occasional Instructions (tho’ other Acts exactly of the same Tenor had been past since those Instructions, and received the Royal Assent;) Some for being inconsistent with the supposed Spirit of an Act of Parliament, when the Act itself did not any way affect us, being made expresly for other Colonies; Some for being, as the Governor was pleased to say, “of an extraordinary Nature,” without informing us wherein that extraordinary Nature consisted; and others for disagreeing with new discovered Meanings, and forced Constructions of a Clause in the Proprietary Commission; that we are now really at a Loss to divine what Bill can possibly pass. 


	...The proprietary Instructions are Secrets to us; and we may spend much Time, and much of the Publick Money, in preparing and framing Bills for Supply, which, after all, must, from those Instructions, prove abortive. If we are thus to be driven from Bill to Bill, without one solid Reason afforded us; and can raise no Money for the King’s Service, and Relief or Security of our Country, till we fortunately hit on the only Bill the Governor is allowed to pass, or till we consent to make such as the Governor or Proprietaries direct us to make, we see little Use of Assemblies in this Particular; and think we might as well leave it to the Governor or Proprietaries to make for us what Supply Laws they please, and save ourselves and the Country the Expence and Trouble. All Debates and all Reasonings are vain, where Proprietary Instructions, just or unjust, right or wrong, must inviolably be observed. We have only to find out, if we can, what they are, and then submit and obey. But surely the Proprietaries Conduct, whether as Fathers of their Country, or Subjects to their King, must appear extraordinary, when it is considered that they have not only formally refused to bear any Part of our yearly heavy Expences in cultivating and maintaining Friendship with the Indians, tho’ they reap such immense Advantages by that Friendship; but they now, by their Lieutenant, refuse to contribute any Part towards resisting an Invasion of the King’s Colony, committed to their Care; or to submit their Claim of Exemption to the Decision of their Sovereign.

	In fine, we have the most sensible Concern for the poor distressed Inhabitants of the Frontiers. We have taken every Step in our Power, consistent with the just Rights of the Freemen of Pennsylvania, for their Relief, and we have Reason to believe, that in the Midst of their Distresses they themselves do not wish us to go farther. Those who would give up essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor Safety. Such as were inclined to defend themselves, but unable to purchase Arms and Ammunition, have, as we are informed, been supplied with both, as far as Arms could be procured, out of Monies given by the last Assembly for the King’s Use; and the large Supply of Money offered by this Bill, might enable the Governor to do every Thing else that should be judged necessary for their farther Security, if he shall think fit to accept it. 


sounds like they were just pissed at the king for twisting their arms with dumb rules just so they could fund their supplies

Then Franklin says basically if you play that game you give up on liberty and deserve neither liberty or security

idk wtf Wittes is talking about


So I guess the real meaning of the quote is: If you let someone act domineering over you just so you can have some security, you're a sucker, basically a bottom and you deserve it

e.g. "bitches get stitches"

Franklin was hardcore

also fuck the king, obviously

hehe

anyway

assuming Whittes is a Russian agent (looks like it), what does this say about their plans?

maybe either:

A - they want to create a police-state security state in the U.S.

or

B - they want to make it *look like* the CIA wants to create a police-state security state in the U.S.

probably the latter


make it look like the whole Trump thing was a power-grab by the CIA, then discredit them


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/volokh-conspiracy/wp/2014/11/11/liberty-safety-and-benjamin-franklin/?utm_term=.49abe959746a
	Liberty, safety, and Benjamin Franklin
	By Eugene Volokh 


Franklin repeated it, looks like in the context of England fucking with Massachusett's laws:

https://books.google.com/books?id=YG8UAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA334&dq=%22give+up+essential+liberty+to+obtain+a+little+temporary+safety+deserve+neither+liberty+nor+safety%22+inauthor:franklin&hl=en&sa=X&ei=dU1iVMTRH8XziAL7yYDADA&ved=0CCYQ6AEwAQ#v=onepage&q=%22give%20up%20essential%20liberty%20to%20obtain%20a%20little%20temporary%20safety%20deserve%20neither%20liberty%20nor%20safety%22%20inauthor%3Afranklin&f=false


I think Franklin basically saying we'd rather go to war then have you lord over us

	Then Franklin famously repeated the words right before the Revolution, as a defense of the colonies’ right not to have their charters and laws altered by Parliament — again, we’re talking here about “liberty” in the sense of communal self-government, not individual liberty. And yet a dozen years later, there was Franklin in the Constitutional Convention, signing and apparently fully endorsing the Constitution, which sharply increased the power of the federal government (as compared to its power under the Articles of Confederation), and which thus in some measure limited states’ rights to control how they are to govern themselves. Why? I take it that Franklin thought, as I suggested at the outset, that it is fine to renounce some liberty (so long as it’s not “essential liberty”) to obtain a large measure of long-term safety (rather than “a little temporary safety”).


wtf is Volokh talking about? Is this more Russian propaganda?


I guess an interesting question is: what would Franklin think about surveillance laws?

Looks like when he uses this quote its in the context of coercion basically, e.g. "we'll give you some safety, just pay up and do what we say." Like protection money from a mob or something.

Although the second time he uses it, its more of a matter of principle I think? like "we'd rather go to war than put up with your shit." "We could give-in and avoid war and let you impose your rules on us, but we'd rather choose liberty."

So seems like its very against people domineering over others and restricting their liberty.

Not sure what he'd say about surveillance laws.

Interesting though that the interpretation of the quote that Wittes and Volokh avoid, if followed, would probably lead to war between the U.S. and Russia

I think it also means we'd shoot Congress

You want to give in to the KGB's demands, do what they say, in exchange for them not releasing all your personal shit? give in to blackmail? well you don't deserve to be free or safe...

jail or death, which do you pick fuckers?
