https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: As the intelligence community assessed in its January of 2017 report, Russia will continue to develop capabilities to use against the United States and we need to be ready to meet those threats. I sincerely appreciate the opportunity to take part in today's discussion.


something they say every hearing. I guess Congress doesn't care (or wants more Russian interference!). I honeslty have to wonder if they see Russia as just another lobbyist/special interest group that they think they have to please to get elected.

	FEINSTEIN: On February 9th, 2017, the Washington Post reported that either Flynn had misled the vice president or that Pence had misspoken. Lieutenant General Flynn resigned his post on February 13th, four days after the Post broke this story. There are still many unanswered questions about General Flynn, including who know what — who knew what and when.

	For example, the press is now reporting that in addition to the warning from Sally Yates, concerns were raised by former President Obama directly to then President-elect Trump, 95 days before Flynn resigned. So the question, what role did Flynn play in communications with the Russians, both after the first warning by President Obama and then after the warning by Sally Yates? And I hope to ask that today. What role did Flynn play in high-level national security decisions, again both during the 95 days and the 18 days when the White House was on notice?


Jan 26th Yates warns WH, Feb 9 wapo story on Flynn, Feb 13 he resigns. Feinstein wants to know what Flynn did during the 95 days.

Really would want to know what Trump and McGahn did.


------


	GRAHAM: What I don't get is how the FBI can have a counter- intelligence investigation suggesting collusion, and you, as director of National Intelligence not know about it, and the FBI sign on to a report that basically said there was no collusion.

	CLAPPER: I can only speculate why that's so. There wasn't — the evidence, if there was any, didn't reach the evidentiary bar in terms of the level of confidence that we were striving for in that intelligence community assessment.


Did the report "basically say" there was no collusion? Not seeing it. Talking about spies in Carters campaign implying it if anything.


	CLAPPER: I also think, if I may, sir, that this illustrates what I was trying to get at in my statement about the unique position that FBI straddles between intelligence and law enforcement.

	GRAHAM: I just want the country to know that whatever they're doing on the counterintelligence side, Mr. Clapper didn't know about it, didn't make it in the report and we'll see what comes from it. 


"unique position between intelligence and law enforcement." Suggesting the investigation is a criminal one?


------


	YATES: I had two in-person meetings and one phone call with the White House Counsel about Mr. Flynn. The first meeting occurred on January 26, called Don McGahn first thing that morning and told him that I had a very sensitive matter that I needed to discuss with him, that I couldn't talk about it on the phone and that I needed to come see him. And he agreed to meet with me later that afternoon.

	I took a senior member of the national security division who was overseeing this matter with me to meet with Mr. McGahn. We met in his office at the White House which is a skiff (ph) so we could discuss classified information in his office. We began our meeting telling him that there had been press accounts of statements from the vice president and others that related conduct that Mr. Flynn had been involved in that we knew not to be the truth.

	And as I - as I tell you what happened here, again I'm going to be very careful not to reveal classified information.


Yates has two in-person meetings and one (was it actually two?) phone call with McGhan about Flynn

Call McCghan morning Jan 26, set up meeting saying couldn't talk about it on the phone, met in SCIF

Met later afternoon Jan 26

Met him with a "senior member of the national security division" (who?)

Began meeting telling him that there had been press accounts of statements from the vice president and others, and these statements (or press accounts?) about Flynn conduct were false

What was press on Flynn leading up to the 26th meeting?


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/01/ethics-office-trump-aides-election-233309
	The federal government's ethics watchdog had difficulty reaching top aides to President-elect Donald Trump for ten days or more after the November election, according to government records released Friday.

	Email traffic shows that Office of Government Ethics Director Walter Shaub had various discussions with Trump's transition planners prior to the Nov. 8 vote, but could not contact Trump lawyer Don McGahn during a period in mid-November.

What's up with that?

http://thehill.com/business-a-lobbying/business-a-lobbying/316579-trump-rounds-out-team-of-white-house-lawyers
	At the campaign finance regulator, McGahn drew the ire of many on the left by helping to loosen campaign finance laws and by pushing for less government oversight of political campaigns.

Interesting


http://www.npr.org/2017/01/14/509814825/gen-michael-flynn-spoke-to-russian-ambassador-same-day-sanctions-were-announced
	Jan 14

	KEITH: Yeah. So he is Trump's pick for national security adviser. We've learned from two sources on the presidential transition team that he spoke by phone with Sergey Kislyak - he's the Russian ambassador to the U.S. - on December 29. We learned that late last night after, all day yesterday, Trump's team insisted that the conversation had actually happened the day before. And, thus, there was no way that they could've discussed the sanctions.

	Then the transition team changed their story. This all first came to light when David Ignatius at The Washington Post wrote that a senior U.S. government official told him that Flynn had called Kislyak multiple times on the day that the Obama administration announced it was imposing sanctions and expelling 35 Russian diplomats from the U.S.


http://www.cbsnews.com/news/mike-pence-michael-flynn-russia-contact-strictly-coincidental/
	Jan 15

	Vice President-elect Mike Pence said Sunday that there was absolutely no contact between the Trump team and Russian officials during the campaign -- and that one adviser’s call with the Russian ambassador the same day sanctions were announced last month was “strictly coincidental.”

	“Of course not,” Pence told CBS’ “Face the Nation,” asked whether anyone from the campaign was ever in touch with Russia. “I think to suggest that is to give credence to some of these bizarre rumors that have swirled around the candidacy.”

	...He added that Flynn has been in touch with diplomatic leaders in approximately 30 countries -- “that’s exactly what the incoming national security adviser should do,” he said.

	“But what I can confirm having spoken to him about it is those conversations that happened to occur around the time that the United States took action to expel diplomats had nothing whatsoever to do with those sanctions,” he said.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/23/politics/flynn-russia-calls-investigation/
	Jan 23

	US investigators are scrutinizing late December calls between Mike Flynn, President Donald Trump's national security adviser, and Russia's ambassador to the US as part of a broader counterintelligence investigation of Russian activities in the US, law enforcement and intelligence officials told CNN. 

	The calls were captured by routine US eavesdropping targeting the Russian diplomats, according to the intelligence and law enforcement officials. But the officials said some of the content of the conversation raised enough potential concerns that investigators are still looking into the discussions, amid a broader concern about Russian intelligence-gathering activities in the United States. 


So Jan 23rd report investigation into Flynn-Kislyak contacts, part of "broad" Russia investigation

	In a statement Sunday night, a spokesman for Trump had said the White House has "absolutely no knowledge of any investigation or even a basis for such an investigation."

Really because sounds like they were just informed? was it by media or did others inform them?

	On Sunday, FBI Director James Comey was at a White House event where Trump honored first responders. Reporters in the room said Trump called out to Comey who walked over and shook hands with the president. The president appeared to whisper something to the FBI director, although what was said could not be heard.

Must be Trump's secret mafia dealings obviously


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/fbi-reviewed-flynns-calls-with-russian-ambassador-but-found-nothing-illicit/2017/01/23/aa83879a-e1ae-11e6-a547-5fb9411d332c_story.html
	Jan 23

	The FBI in late December reviewed intercepts of communications between the Russian ambassador to the United States and retired Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn — national security adviser to then-President-elect Trump — but has not found any evidence of wrongdoing or illicit ties to the Russian government, U.S. officials said.


------

Jan 26 meeting:

	YATES: So I told them again that there were a number of press accounts of statements that had been made by the vice president and other high-ranking White House officials about General Flynn's conduct that we knew to be untrue. And we told them how we knew that this - how we had this information, how we had acquired it, and how we knew that it was untrue.


So I guess telling them the media was picking up on Pence, maybe Spicer and others lying on Flynn's conduct.

Told them how they knew... so I guess told McGahn about incidental collection? the investigation?

Gave McGahn detailed account of Flynn's misconducted

Told him Flynn interviweed by FB on Feb 24.

...in the future

???

mean Jan 24? thought I heard Jan 24 when I watched this

	Mr. McGahn asked me how he did and I declined to give him an answer to that.

weird to ask?

They told McGahn Flynn's conduct was problematic "in and of itself" (contradicts report of "no evidence of wrongdoing" it seems)

	...we wanted to make it really clear right out of the gate that we were not accusing Vice President Pence of knowingly providing false information to the American people.

	And, in fact, Mr. McGahn responded back to me to let me know that anything that General Flynn would've said would have been based -- excuse me -- anything that Vice President Pence would have said would have been based on what General Flynn had told him.

Interesting. How would he know that?

They told him Russians knew all this, would have proof, and so Flynn could be blackmailed

	And that created a compromise situation, a situation where the national security adviser essentially could be blackmailed by the Russians. Finally, we told them that we were giving them all of this information so that they could take action, the action that they deemed appropriate.


And what action did they take? Deny, deflect

	I remember that Mr. McGahn asked me whether or not General Flynn should be fired, and I told him that that really wasn't our call, that was up to them, but that we were giving them this information so that they could take action, and that was the first meeting.


If McGahn was told this was serious, and asked "should Flynn be fired," sounds like he understood this was serious.

------

	WHITEHOUSE: Did you have the 302 with you when you were in the White House? Did you show it to White House counsel? And had you seen it at the time you went up to the White House?

	YATES: No. The FBI had conducted the interview on the 24th. We got a readout from the FBI on the 25th, a detailed readout specifically from the agents that had conducted the interview.


Whitehouse coming out with a gotcha, probably pre-planned with his Russian buddies

FBI interrogate Flynn 24th, readout to Yates 25th, then she calls up McGahn for urgent meeting 26th

	But we didn't want to wait for the 302, because we felt that it was important to get this information to the White House as quickly as possible, so we had folks from the national security division who spent a lot of time with the agents, not only finding out exactly how the interview went but how this impacted their investigation.

Yates again saying this was urgent situation

	WHITEHOUSE: So did you take that summary with you? Do you have any document with you that described the FBI interview of General Flynn?

	YATES: At the time that I was there, I had notes that described that interview, as well as the individual that was with me -- the senior career official from the national security division -- had been part of all of those discussions with the FBI.

Is she saying the person with her interviewed Flynn? no saying he was from national security division, wpent a lot of time with the FBI agents finding out "how the interview went" and how getting the information to the WH impacted their investigation.


Yates and McGahn discussed criminal prosecution of Flynn in second meeting, "not really much" in the first.

McGahn called her back the 27th and asked her to come back to his office with same NSD guy, who was overseeing "this investigation" (what investigation?). 

Does she mean investigation under which Flynn FBI interview was conducted? NSD is in DOJ. Earlier she says "we had folks from the national security division who spent a lot of time with the agents, not only finding out exactly how the interview went but how this impacted their investigation."


They met afternoon 27th

"we talked through four to five more issues"

Criminal prosecution of Flynn being one of them


------


	WHITEHOUSE: You could perhaps have waited until you actually had seen the agents 302 from the interview of General Flynn. Why go ahead of that? Why not wait?

	YATES: Well, because this was a matter of some urgency, we...

	WHITEHOUSE: Describe.

	YATES: In making the determination about notification here, we had to balance a variety of interest. For the reasons that I just described a few minutes ago, we felt like it was critical that we get this information to the White House, because in part because the vice president was unknowingly making false statements to the public and because we believed that General Flynn was compromised with respect to the Russians.

	We were balancing this though, against the FBI's investigation, as you would always do, and take into account the investigating agency's desires and concerns about how a notification might impact that ongoing investigation. But once General Flynn was interviewed, there was no longer a concern about an impact on an investigation.


Sounds like she's saying they wanted to get this to WH ASAP but didn't want to interfere with FBI investigation, after interview with Flynn they dashed to get it to them.

Flynn had no lawyer when interviewed.

	WHITEHOUSE: OK. And the scenario that you were concerned about was that you were seeing all these statements coming from the White House that were inconsistent with what you knew, you presumed that the White House was being truthful which meant that Flynn was misleading them.

	YATES: Right.

	WHITEHOUSE: Which meant that he was vulnerable to manipulation by the Russians, who knowing what had actually taken place could call up the national security advisor to the president and say, you got to do this for us or we're going to out you with all your folks and your career is done.

	YATES: That's right, because one of the questions that Mr. McGahn asked me when I went back over the second day was essentially, why does it matter to DOJ if one White House official lies to another White House official?

	And so we explained to him, it was a whole lot more than that and went back over the same concerns that we had raised with them the prior day, that the concern first about the underlying conduct itself, that he had lied to the vice president and others, the American public had been misled.


Interesting she had to explain it to him twice, asked "why does it matter to DOJ if one official lies to another." In first meeting sounded like he understood the severity.

or maybe not?


	YATES: Sorry about that. One of the -- one of the issues that Mr. McGahn raised with me in this second meeting that again was on the 27th, the day after the first meeting, was his concern because we had told him before that we were giving him this information so that they could take action.

	And he said that they were concerned that taking action might interfere with the FBI investigation. And we told him, both the senior career official and I, that he should not be concerned with it, that General Flynn had been interviewed, that their action would not interfere with any investigation and in fact, I remember specifically saying, you know it wouldn't really be fair of us to tell you this and then expect you to sit on your hands.


McGahn thinking about taking action, wants to know if it will interfere with FBI investigation, she tells him no


	YATES: Well, we had wanted to tell the White House as quickly as possible and we're working with the FBI and in the course of the investigation but certainly, we did...


So DOJ involved (well clearly) in investigation of Flynn, reportedly part of a broader investigation


Yates and NSD guy "were inclined" to allow them to look at the underlying evidence, that we wanted to go back to DOJ and be able to make the logistical arrangements for that.

27th meeting late afternoon


	So we told him that we would work with the FBI over the weekend on this issue and get back with him on Monday morning. And I called him first thing Monday morning to let him know that we would allow them to come over and to review the underlying evidence.


McGahn "not available," did not hear back from McGahn until "late afternoon" 30th.

Then she got fired

	WHITEHOUSE: And that was the end of this episode, nobody came over to look at the material?

	YATES: I don't know what happened after that because that was my last day with DOJ.


------


	GRASSLEY: Mr. Clapper, you said that you've never exposed classified information in an inappropriate manner. I asked Director Comey these questions last week, so for both of you, yes or no. As far as you know, has any classified information relating to Mr. Trump or his associates been declassified and shared with the media?

Grassley only cares about leaks to media


------


	FEINSTEIN: Would you list those four topics?

	YATES: Sure. The first topic in the second meeting was essentially why does it matter to DOJ if one White House official lies to another. The second topic related to the applicability of criminal statutes and the likelihood that the Department of Justice would pursue a criminal case. The third topic was his concern that their taking action might interfere with an investigation of Mr. Flynn. And the fourth topic was his request to see the underlying evidence.


...

	YATES:I know that we were really concerned about the compromise here, and that was the reason why we were encouraging them to act. I don't know what steps they may have taken, if any, during that 18 days to minimize any risk.

She wouldn't know, wasn't in DOJ. Who would? Boente replaced her. What about the NSD guy?


------

	FEINSTEIN: The Guardian has reported that Britain's intelligence service first became aware in late 2015 of suspicious interactions between Trump advisers and Russian intelligence agents. This information was passed on to U.S. intelligence agencies.

	Over the spring of 2016, multiple European allies passed on additional information to the United States about contacts between the Trump campaign and Russians. Is this accurate?

	...FEINSTEIN: General Clapper, is that accurate?

	CLAPPER: Yes, it is and it's also quite sensitive.

	...CLAPPER: The specifics are -- are --- are quite sensitive


	...CLAPPER: Well, I'm not sure about the accuracy of that article, so clearly over actually going back to 2015, there was evidence of Soviet, excuse me, Freudian slip, Russian activity. Mainly, in an information gathering or recon ordering mode, where they were investigating voter registration rolls and the like.

	And that activity started early, and so, we were monitoring this as it progressed, and certainly as it picked up, accelerated in spring, summer and fall of 2016.

So not sure of accuracy of Guardian article, but accurate that Britain intel aware of suspicious interactions between Trump advisers and Russian intelligence agencies, which was passed on to U.S. intelligence agencies.

And over Spring 2016 multiple European allies passed additional info to U.S. about contacts between Trump campaign and Russians.

But "specifics" are "quite sensitive"


------

Cornyn cares about unmasking and 702s and all that

grills Yates on decision not to defend muslim ban


------

	DURBIN: At Mr. McGahn's request. And at that second meeting, did Mr. McGahn say anything about whether he had taken the information you'd given him the previous day to the president? YATES: No, he didn't tell us.

	DURBIN: Are you aware of the fact that Mr. Spicer, the White House press secretary, on February 14th said, and I quote, "Immediately after the Department of Justice notified the White House counsel of the situation, the White House counsel briefed the president and a small group of senior advisors?"

	YATES: I've seen media reports to that effect, but that's all I know is from the media.


So according to Spicer, the President was briefed by McGahn.

	DURBIN: On February 14th, after General Flynn resigned, Sean Spicer said, and I quote, "There was nothing in what General Flynn did in terms of conducting himself that was an issue." Do you have any idea what he meant by those words?

	YATES: No. I'm not -- all I can say is he didn't reach that conclusion from his conversation with us. I can't speak to how he arrived at that.


Yates made it clear to McGahn that Flynn's misconduct was an issue


	DURBIN: Let me ask you, there was a period of time, 18 days, that we've referred to (inaudible) and during that period of 18 days, a number of things occurred; General Glynn continued to serve as the national security advisor for 18 days after you had briefed the White House about the counterintelligence risk that he posed. And during those 18 days, General Flynn continued to hire key senior staff on the National Security Council, announced new sanctions on Iran's ballistic missile program, met with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe along with President Trump at Mar-a-Lago and participated in discussions about responding to a North Korean missile launch and spoke repeatedly to the press about his communications with Russian Ambassador Kisliak.


Durbin pointing out that Flynn was doing all sorts of thins in those 18 days, "spoke reportedly to the press about his communication with Russian Ambassador Kislyak

	CLAPPER: Well, that's -- that's -- it is certainly a potential vulnerability, there's no question about it.


------

Cruz talking about leaks and Clinton or something

calling yates a partisan maybe


------

	I realize that you're second meeting, when you went over to the white house to warn them of General Flynn's line, and his connections with Russia was the same day that this Refugee order came out and it was the same day that you had to leave the justice department. So you -- when did you meet with the White House council on that day?

	YATES: I met with White House Council as best as I can recall about 3:00 in the afternoon on the 30th.


I thought second meeting was 27th? what's this?

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZJF_ig3PhuE&t=1h38m50s

transcript accurate

Slip by Yates? earlier she says 27th, day after 26th


https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/3438879/Letter-From-Sally-Yates.pdf

no date on her letter

Yates bad with dates?

Yates also "issued my directive" on the 30th

Was there a third "meeting" with McGahn on the 30th? says "He had to call me back. He was not available then and I did not hear back from him until that afternoon of Monday the 30th."


So I guess Klobuchar is confusing things, Yates answering question "when did you meet with the White House Council on the day you were fired?" and she says she met with White House Council on 30th at 3:00

So McGahn "got back" to her after the call and actually met with her? and what was discussed?



	KLOBUCHAR: And during that meeting did they mention -- anyone mention that this refugee order was about to come out?

	YATES: No.

This doesn't make sense--if "that meeting" was on the 30th, then the travel ban had already come out. So maybe both Yates and Klobuchar misspoke? "the second meeting" was, as she repeatedly said, on the 27th

	KLOBUCHAR: Did the acting Attorney General of the United States?

	YATES: No and that was one thing that was of concern to us, is that not only was department leadership not consulted here and beyond department leadership, really the subject matter experts, the national security experts, not only was the department not consulted, we weren't even told about it. I learned about this from media reports.

	KLOBUCHAR: So you learned about it after the meeting at the White house Council from the media.

	YATES: Right.


So EO came as a surprise, same day (27th) as 2nd meeting, DOJ was not told about it. Yates was acting AG at this time. Boente was next in line--remember now. So Boente was deputy AG? or was it just next in line of succession for acting AG?


	YATES: Look I understand that, you know people of good will and -- who are good folks can make different decisions about this. I understand that. But all I can say is that I did my job the best way I knew how. I looked at this E.O., I looked at the law, I talked with the folks at the Department of Justice, gathered them all to get their views and their input and I did my job.

Yates just doing her job

	Do you have any doubt that the information that you conveyed to the White House on January 26th should have been made clear that Flynn had been potentially compromised by Russia? That this information was clear?

	YATES: Well the purpose in our telling them again was so that they could act and so that they could convey that information. So I would hope that they did.


Klobuchar asks about Shell corporations


	an independent commission would allow a panel of experts to go into the next election, go into 2020, where Director Comey had said "I expect to see them back in 2018 and especially 2020."

	Those are his words. Do you agree with that, Director?

	CLAPPER: Absolutely.

	KLOBUCHAR: And that is why an independent commission would allow us to come up with some ideas and how we can stop this from happening again, whether it is how the media handled these things, how campaigns handled these things, how intelligence agencies, when they find out, handle these things, because we cannot allow foreign countries to influence our democracies.

	Do you agree, Director Clapper?

	CLAPPER: I certainly do. And I understand how critical leaks are and unmasking and all these ancillary issues. But to me, the transcendent issue here is the Russian interference in our election process, and what that means to the erosion of the fundamental fabric of our democracy.

	And that to me is a huge deal. And they're going to continue to do it. And why not? It proved successful.


------

Sasse talking about Russia hacking Congressional IT systems

	What is the relationship between propaganda and director intel gathering?

	CLAPPER: You mean, on the part of the Russians?

	SASSE: Yes, on their neighbors.

	CLAPPER: Well, they would certainly use that, as they have and examples of that in places like Georgia and the Baltics where they will turn evidence that or -- or what they've gathered and use that as -- as leverage or if they can, to use kompromat (ph), the -- the Russian acronym for compromise of material or the real tribes (ph) so there's all kinds of nefarious things they can potentially do if -- if they gather information like that.


implying members of Congress are being blackmailed

Clapper talking about Russian government using active measures to control countries, influence elections


	YATES: Generally, if we discovered information -- let's say an investigative agency like FBI discovered information about a political appointee, they would first get in contact with the relevant division of the Department of Justice that would have jurisdiction over it, whether it's the criminal division, the national security division -- whatever it might be.

	They would report that information there, and then, depending on the seriousness of that information, it would probably make its way to me, when I was deputy attorney general, or, then, acting attorney general.

since it was serious, sounds like AG sessions would have known?


------

Coons asking a lot of questions Yates can't answer.

	YATES: Well, certainly, in the course of the meetings, both on the 26th and 27th, Mr. McGahn certainly demonstrated that he understood that this was serious. So he did seem to be taking it seriously.

	I -- you know, I don't have any way of knowing what, if anything, they did. If nothing was done, then certainly, that would be concerning.

	...Had I remained at the Department of Justice, and if I were under the impression that nothing had been done, then, yes, I would have raised it again with the White House.


------

Kennedy some blowhard who doesn't understand Constitution

Talks about Humphrey and Reagan, whether or not Russians influenced outcome of election


------

	LEAHY: No, but I mean, did anybody from the White House try to direct the Justice Department how they should respond on that executive order?

	YATES: Well, certainly there was discussion with the White House about litigation strategy, but that occurred, to my knowledge, over the weekend. But, after the 30th, when I issued my directive, I was gone then that evening around 9:00, so I don't know what other discussions occurred after that.


WH didn't say anything to her, fired at 9:00 PM the 27th


	Do you feel Russia was responsible?

	CLAPPER: Absolutely. And regrettably, certainly he, although the conclusions that we rendered were the same as in the highly classified report, as the unclassified, unfortunately a lot of the substantiation for that could not be put in the unclassified report because of the sensitivity of it.

	To me, the evidence was overwhelming, and very compelling, that the Russians did this.

	LEAHY: Does it serve any purpose for high officials, like the President, to say, "Well it could have been somebody else, it could have been china"? I mean does that really, does that help us, or does that help Russia?

	CLAPPER: Well, yes, I guess it could be -- you could rationalize that it helps the Russians by obfuscating who was actually responsible.


pointing out that Trump is helping the Russians


------


	I was struck that Mr. McGahn did not ask you in the second meeting why DOJ, General Yates, would have concerns that the -- that the national security advisor had lied to the vice president. In the first meeting, did you mention that? That that was -- that he might be compromised?

	YATES: Certainly, we went through all of our concerns in the first meeting. And it was in the second meeting that he just raised the question of essentially, why is this an issue for the Department of Justice if one White House official lies to another.

	FRANKEN: OK I don't understand why he didn't understand that.

	YATES: I'm not sure I can help you with that, Senator.

Franken pointing out it was weird that McGahn asked "why does DOJ care if one official lies to another"


	FRANKEN: And the president had told -- President Obama had told the incoming president-elect two days after the election, don't hire this guy.

	YATES: I don't know anything about that.


Interesting... did that actually happen?


------


	BLUMENTHAL: So where I'm going is, the need for a special prosecutor is because officials at the highest level who are responsible for appointing the deputy attorney general, the United States attorney general are all potentially witnesses and they are even targets, correct?

	YATES: Potentially.

Rosenstein potentially a target of the investigation?


	YATES: Yes, I was fired.

	BLUMENTHAL: So nobody was around to tell the White House, as you said, that our national security was in danger.

	YATES: Well, there were still the career officials in the National Security Division who had been working with me on this matter that were there and were certainly conversant in the facts.

Maybe call them to the stand, huh?


------

Hirino saying Obama gave Flynn a clearance and therefore that means something


Hirino covering for Trump trying to argue he didn't know there were security concerns with Flynn?


------


	General Clapper, during your investigation of all things Russia, did you ever find a situation where a trump business interest in Russia gave you concern?

	...CLAPPER: Senator Graham I can't comment on that because that impacts an investigation.


Clapper just basically confirm an investigation into Trump's business interests?


	GRAHAM: OK. Ms. Yates the rule of law, you cannot allow people to leak classified information because they want a particular outcome, that's not the rule of law, is that correct?

	CLAPPER: Absolutely.

On the other hand, if the justice system is stacked so that high-level officials are above the rule of law, leaking brings them down a bit

A better system would be actually having a DOJ that prosecutes criminals in this Administration but beggars can't be choosers apparently...


Graham talking about leak to WaPo


------


	WHITEHOUSE: And in terms of corrupting and compromising politicians, same, we don't know the full extent of whether or not politicians have been corrupted and compromised?

	CLAPPER: I certainly don't -- I did not and don't.


Whitehouse talking about Blackmail and Kompromat on politicians


------

	YATES: I think they're coming back, and we have to do a whole lot more, both to harden our election systems, our state election systems, to ensure that folks out there know when they're looking at news feeds, that it may not be real news that they're reading.

	I think that we have to do more to deter the Russians, and it wouldn't hurt to prosecute a few folks, but I don't think we should kid ourselves, that we'll be able to prosecute our way out of this problem.

Interesting she'd say that


	CLAPPER: Well, as much as I love Congressional Hearings, I think there is a useful purpose served. Because I think the most important thing that needs to be done here, is educate the electorate as to what the Russians' objective is, and the tactics and techniques, and procedures that they've employed and will continue to employ, and I predict it will be against all the parties.

	And so, I think education of the public is the most important thing we can do in this hearing, grudgingly though, I admit it, serves that purpose to the extent that this can be shared openly.

	I do think as well, there needs to be more done in the way of sanctions to the Russians, or any other government, that attempts to interfere in our election process.


------

	KLOBUCHAR: What about our election infrastructure, as we move forward? As you said, one major thing we need to do, is to educate the public.

	And I'm very concerned, while we have different states, have different election equipment on the ranking on rules, and we're working on a Bill on this. How important is that to protect the integrity of our election equipment?

	CLAPPER: It's quite important and speaking now as a private citizen, not my former capacity, I do think that our election apparatus should be considered critical infrastructure, and should have the protections that are tended to that. A lot of states pushed back when Jeh Johnson, secretary of Homeland Security, engaged with state election officials about having that designation and having the federal government interfere in -- in their election process. But as a citizen, I'd be concerned with doing all we can to secure that apparatus part of the -- attendant (ph) to the intelligence community assessment that we put out. DHS put out a paper on best practices for -- as an advisory on how to secure election apparatuses in -- at the state and local level.


Sounds like they're concerned about vote hacking


Clapper wants better USIA


	KLOBUCHAR: About when you were giving these warnings about the knowledge you had on General Flynn. Is that normal practice? Why did you do that?

	YATES: Well, this was a person who was the career lawyer who was supervising this matter and we thought that it was important. First of all, she had been the one who was most intimately familiar with it, but secondly, we knew that my tenure was going to be short and wanted to make sure that there was continuity there and that...

Should ask this lawyer (from NSD?) to the stand

------

	KENNEDY: But don't you have to get some additional double secret security clearance to serve in the White House?

	CLAPPER: Well, yes, you do. And as I indicated before...

	KENNEDY: Can i ask you how he got one...

	CLAPPER: ... the process is done -- I don't know how it's done in this administration.

interesting


------


	Finally, the current deputy attorney general, do you know him, Ms. Yates?

	YATES: (OFF-MIKE)

	GRAHAM: Do you have confidence in him?

	YATES: Yes, I do.


well, I don't...

any other way she could answer that question in this setting?


------

	WHITEHOUSE: During the last hearing, we had the author of the Kremlin playbook as one of our witnesses and we had the very well- regarded Kenneth Weinstein as one of our witnesses, and they both agreed that the United States is leaving itself vulnerable to this kind of influence if we continue to allow shell corporations to proliferate without a way for law enforcement to figure out who the beneficial owners are. So I mention that because Chairman Grassley and I are working on a piece of legislation to help solve that, but I think it's very important in this area and I just wanted to flag it and express to Chairman Grassley my appreciation for his bipartisan cooperation on that front, and of course, my appreciation to Chairman Graham for his work to make this hearing a success and so interesting and meaningful.

Oh god what are they doing now


------

timeline:

	Jan 15th:

Pence saying Flynn told him no contact with Kislyak about sanctions (http://www.cbsnews.com/news/face-the-nation-transcript-january-15-2017-pence-manchin-gingrich/)

	Jan 20th:

Yates named acting AG


	Jan 24th:

FBI interviews Flynn


	Jan 25th:

Yates gets FBI interview readout


	Jan 26th:

Morning, Yates calls McGahn saying they need to discuss something urgent, sensitive

Afternoon, Yates meets with McGahn and tells him Flynn vulnerable to blackmail.


	Jan 27th:

Morning: McGahn calls Yates for another meeting

Afternoon: Yates meets with McGahn, discuss criminal prosecution, lies, interfering in investigation, seeing evidence

Trump travel ban signed (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executive_Order_13769 https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/27/us/politics/trump-syrian-refugees.html)

Yates learned of travel ban after meeting with McGahn from media reports, nobody on DOJ counseled


	Jan 29th:

Guilianna says Tremp asked him "how to implement a muslim ban legally" http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/316726-giuliani-trump-asked-me-how-to-do-a-muslim-ban-legally


	Jan 30th:

Morning: Yates calls McGahn to look at underlying evidence, doesn't hear back from him right away

3:00 PM McGahn gets back to Yates regarding seeing the underlying evidence (and met with Yates?)

afternoon Yates refuses to defend travel ban (https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/30/us/politics/trump-immigration-ban-memo.html https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/01/30/us/document-Letter-From-Sally-Yates.html)

9:00 PM Sally Yates fired


	Feb 9th:

Sessions sworn-in as attorney general

WaPo story on Flynn (https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/national-security-adviser-flynn-discussed-sanctions-with-russian-ambassador-despite-denials-officials-say/2017/02/09/f85b29d6-ee11-11e6-b4ff-ac2cf509efe5_story.html)


	Feb 13th:


Conway says Trump has "full confidence" in Flynn http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/kellyanne-conway-michael-flynn-president-trump-full-confidence

Flynn resigns/fired


	Feb 14th:

Spicer says "Immediately after the Department of Justice notified the White House counsel of the situation, the White House counsel briefed the president and a small group of senior advisors"

http://www.nbcnews.com/health/health-care/obamacare-premiums-are-going-whose-fault-it-n761506
	Spicer made clear that the White House first dispensed with the legal side of the situation, with White House counsel finding that Flynn had not done anything legally wrong in his conversations. Spicer did not go into specific detail when asked what material the White House counsel's office reviewed to determine Flynn broke no laws. 


http://www.npr.org/2017/02/15/515441758/white-house-appears-to-keep-pence-out-of-the-loop-on-flynn
	LOTTER: What I would tell you is that the vice president became aware of incomplete information that he'd received on February 9, last Thursday night, based on media accounts. He did an inquiry based on those media accounts.



https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/trump-administration-sought-to-block-sally-yates-from-testifying-to-congress-on-russia/2017/03/28/82b73e18-13b4-11e7-9e4f-09aa75d3ec57_story.html?utm_term=.e47d890ac013

Then there's this


------

Yates leading up to the 26th Jan

https://www.google.com/search?q=Sally+Yates&source=lnt&tbs=cdr%3A1%2Ccd_min%3A12%2F1%2F2016%2Ccd_max%3A1%2F26%2F2017&tbm=#q=Sally+Yates&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:12/1/2016,cd_max:1/26/2017&start=10


http://www.bizjournals.com/atlanta/news/2016/12/01/yates-optimistic-new-justice-dept-team-will.html
	Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates said Wednesday that she’s optimistic that President-elect Donald Trump’s Justice Department team will continue to hold people accountable for corruption and other wrongdoing.

lord knows why

https://www.law360.com/articles/884139/trump-keeps-comey-at-fbi-for-now-yates-named-acting-ag

Yates named acting AG the 23rd?

https://www.google.com/search?q=Sally+Yates&biw=960&bih=886&source=lnt&tbs=cdr%3A1%2Ccd_min%3A1%2F15%2F2017%2Ccd_max%3A1%2F26%2F2017&tbm=nws


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-us-attorneys-federal-prosecutors_us_587fa66be4b01cdc64c900c4
	WASHINGTON ― President-elect Donald Trump will allow U.S. attorneys appointed by President Barack Obama to remain in their roles for the time being, a Justice Department official said Tuesday evening.

	The news about the future of the nation’s top federal prosecutors came less than 72 hours before Trump’s swearing in at noon on Friday. Before the announcement, officials in several U.S. attorneys’ offices told The Huffington Post they had received no guidance from the incoming administration on whether they were expected to resign when Trump became president. That changed on Tuesday.


	...The incoming Trump administration also asked Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates to serve as acting Attorney General, effective noon on Friday, until Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) is confirmed as AG, Hornbuckle said. Attorney General Loretta Lynch will vacate the position Friday. 

17th - news that Trump will allow Yates to serve as acting AG, Lynch will be recused

R.C. Hammond, a spokesman for the Trump transition team, rejected the premise that the announcement about the fate of the nation’s top federal prosecutors had come late.

Why did it come late?


	For now, the Trump team is focused on getting Sessions confirmed as attorney general. The Senate Judiciary Committee is scheduled to take up his nomination on Jan. 24, but it can be delayed a week by any senator, according to Politico. That means his nomination may not come to the floor of the Senate until early February. Rod Rosenstein, the current U.S. attorney for the District of Maryland, is reportedly expected to be nominated as deputy attorney general, the No. 2 position at Justice.

So Sessions was supposed to be in on the 24th? interesting. Ok not be in but "take up his nomintation"

Why did the Trump team allow Yate to keep her post and be acting AG? why did the law360 source say she didn't become acting AG until the 23rd?

Did Trump have any other choice? could he have just appointed some random person as acting AG?


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/01/trump-us-attorneys-233740
	The issue of removing U.S. attorneys at the change of administration has been a contentious one in past years.

	In 2007, President George W. Bush's administration sought to defend his firing of eight U.S. attorneys by asserting that President Bill Clinton had fired all sitting U.S. attorneys in 1993 "in one fell swoop," as a top aide to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales put it.

	However, that was not entirely true. In both the Clinton and Bush administrations, the vast majority of U.S. attorneys were replaced in the first year, the Los Angeles Times reported in 2007. The Clinton team asked for resignation letters in March, but also allowed many prosecutors to stay until their successors were confirmed.

	While the right of a new president to replace political appointees is generally undisputed, the Trump transition has faced criticism in recent weeks for being insensitive to some departing officials. In particular, ambassadors serving abroad have complained that they are being forced out of their posts while their children are still in school, notwithstanding requests for flexibility regarding timing.


So it would have looked bad if he just fired all the old attorneys


https://www.quora.com/What-do-lawyers-think-of-Trump-firing-Sally-Yates
People saying Yates was right to not uphold the muslim ban


http://www.rawstory.com/2017/01/senior-us-spy-diplomats-leaving-despite-being-asked-to-stay-on/
	Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence Stephanie O’Sullivan, Under Secretary of State for Economic Growth, Energy and the Environment Cathy Novelli and Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs Toria Nuland have told colleagues they are stepping down, the sources said.

Maybe unreleated, but why step down?

https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/joaquin-el-chapo-guzman-loera-faces-charges-new-york-leading-continuing-criminal-enterprise

OK so she was acting AG the 20th

http://caselaw.findlaw.com/us-5th-circuit/1768241.html

...and the 23rd


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/01/trump-immigration-block-muslim-ban-234205

	President Donald Trump said his plans to temporarily halt the entry of refugees and citizens of several Muslim-majority countries into the U.S. was "not the Muslim ban" he frequently promised on the campaign trail but that he still planned to institute "extreme vetting" against certain nations.

	“No, it’s not the Muslim ban,” the president told ABC's David Muir during an interview that aired Wednesday night, while reiterating the need to restrict access into the U.S. in some form.

	“You’re looking at people that come in in many cases with evil intentions. I don’t want that. They’re ISIS. They’re coming in under false pretense. I don’t want that," he added.

	According to a draft copy and supporting material for a White House executive order that the president plans to unveil as early as Thursday, the move will restrict immigration from seven Muslim majority countries: Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Yemen, and Iran. The document also calls for a 120-day suspension of the U.S.'s refugee resettlement program. 


So Trump unveils his Muslim ban, saying its not a Muslim ban on the 25th


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-immigration-exclusive-idUSKBN1582XQ
	U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to sign executive orders starting on Wednesday that include a temporary ban on most refugees and a suspension of visas for citizens of Syria and six other Middle Eastern and African countries, say congressional aides and immigration experts briefed on the matter.

	Trump, who tweeted that a "big day" was planned on national security on Wednesday, is expected to ban for several months the entry of refugees into the United States, except for religious minorities escaping persecution, until more aggressive vetting is in place.

So some "Congressional aides and immigration experts" said Trump planning to sign Muslim Ban EO on the 25th, announced 8:00 AM 25th

	Another order will block visas being issued to anyone from Syria, Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen, said the aides and experts, who asked not to be identified.

Oh wait there were two orders

Ok one for refugees and one to block Visas from Muslim countries

	On the campaign trail, Trump initially proposed a temporary ban on Muslims entering the United States, which he said would protect Americans from jihadist attacks.

	Both Trump and his nominee for attorney general, Senator Jeff Sessions, have since said they would focus the restrictions on countries whose migrants could pose a threat, rather than a ban on those of a specific religion.


changing their story


	Detractors could launch legal challenges if all the countries subject to the ban are Muslim-majority nations, said immigration expert Hiroshi Motomura at UCLA School of Law.

	Legal arguments could claim the executive orders discriminate against a particular religion, which would be unconstitutional, he said.

	"His comments during the campaign and a number of people on his team focused very much on religion as the target," Motomura said.

right, made it kindof obvious it would be unconstitutional


Why didn't he sign it on the 25th?


http://www.cnbc.com/2017/01/24/trump-to-restrict-immigration-from-several-middle-east-countries-reuters.html
Similar to Rueters, but on 9:17 PM on the 24th

Anyway Trump announced Muslim ban late 24th-25th, there was backlash, went on TV to announce it wasn't a muslim ban the 25th

https://www.democracynow.org/2017/1/26/thousands_rally_in_nyc_to_protest

So some backlash reported even on 26th

http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/muslim-leaders-cair-donald-trump-president-ban-rally-emergency-new-york-a7546581.html

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/protestors-flood-nycs-washington-square-park-in-anticipation-of-muslim-ban_us_58893575e4b0737fd5cb81db

------


So what happened from the warning Jan 26th to Feb



https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/14/us/politics/donald-trump-administration-michael-flynn-resignation.html?_r=0

	Mr. Spicer said Mr. Trump was informed 17 days ago by Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, that his national security adviser had not been truthful when he told Vice President Mike Pence that he had not discussed sanctions with the Russian ambassador.
Continue reading the main story

	Mr. Spicer said the president asked Mr. McGahn to then determine whether Mr. Flynn had violated the law. In the end, he said, there was “a violation of trust,” not “a violation of law.”


A cover story perhaps?

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/02/national-security-council-new-advisers-234537

Flynn hiring people while compromised

Hired Ezra Cohen-Watnick too? when was he brought on?


http://nojeveje.net/2017/01/15/jews-trump-adminstration/

Before Jan 15 at least? sketchy site


http://jewishjournal.com/news/nation/217939/meet-ezra-cohen-watnick-nsc-aide-reportedly-leaked-intel-back-trump-tapping-claims/

Cohen's wife Russian agent? I didn't know that!


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/03/trump-national-security-mcmaster-overrule-236065
	President Donald Trump has overruled a decision by his national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, to sideline a key intelligence operative who fell out of favor with some at the Central Intelligence Agency, two sources told POLITICO.

	On Friday, McMaster told the National Security Council’s senior director for intelligence programs, Ezra Cohen-Watnick, that he would be moved to another position in the organization.

	The conversation followed weeks of pressure from career officials at the CIA who had expressed reservations about the 30-year-old intelligence operative and pushed for his ouster. 

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/tension-between-cia-and-trump-white-house-persists-over-personnel-and-policy/2017/03/15/0694bf76-09b5-11e7-b77c-0047d15a24e0_story.html


------

https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/02/02/white-house-national-security-advisor-announces-nsc-senior-staff-0

What kind of people did Flynn hire?

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/02/national-security-council-new-advisers-234537
	National security adviser Michael Flynn has hired four top deputies, including an executive for venture capitalist Peter Thiel — a top supporter of President Donald Trump — and former intelligence and legal officials who will manage broad portfolios, the White House announced.

	Joining the retired lieutenant general's inner circle are David Cattler, a former Defense Intelligence Agency official who will oversee regional affairs; John Eisenberg, a former Justice Department official who will be the NSC's top legal adviser; longtime Commerce and State Department official Kenneth Juster, who will steer economic policy; and Kevin Harrington, most recently the managing director and head of research for Thiel Macro LLC, a San Francisco-based global macro hedge fund. Harrington will be responsible for strategic planning.


https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/02/02/white-house-national-security-advisor-announces-nsc-senior-staff-0


http://www.politico.eu/article/donald-trump-team-building-a-wall-inside-national-security-council/
	President Donald Trump’s national security adviser is planning to rely on a new layer of hand-picked aides to serve as a “barrier” between the professional staff of the National Security Council and top White House officials, according to two sources with direct knowledge.

	...“You will not have the experts in the room when the principals are having these discussions,” worries one NSC veteran who has heard complaints from White House officials this week. The person, like others, agreed to speak on condition of anonymity.

	“They are not being used,” added another source with direct knowledge of the developments, who similarly expressed concern that the Trump team is “doubling down on cutting out the professional experts.”

	...The staffing deliberations also come after reports that the president and his senior aides did not fully consult with his secretaries of Homeland Security and Defense before issuing a controversial executive order temporarily banning travel to the United States from seven majority-Muslim countries.

	...a spokesman told POLITICO that Flynn intends to rely on a smaller staff and “run a very precise and orderly and quick process.” 


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/03/mcmaster-national-security-council-staff-changes-235579
	“McMaster took a look at them and thought he didn’t need the extra layer,” the White House aide said of the two positions. “He wanted to go back to the way it had been prior.”


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/02/mike-flynn-nsa-aide-trump-234923
	A top deputy to national security adviser Michael Flynn was rejected for a critical security clearance, effectively ending his tenure on the National Security Council and escalating tensions between Flynn and the intelligence community.

	...One person close to Trump said that, within the White House, Flynn is regarded by some as waging “a jihad against the intelligence community.” This person said Flynn is blamed by some people around Trump for trying to turn the new president against the intelligence community during the campaign and transition period, when Trump was openly skeptical about U.S. intelligence findings that Russia meddled in the election to try to help his campaign and damage that of his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.


	...Someone close to Trump said "a lot of people are gunning for Flynn, but I think the president likes him."

	"The president thinks he's loyal and has expertise," this person said. "Among others, there's this perception he is wild, outside the box, not suited for the office.”

	A senior Trump official played down the idea that Flynn may be in danger, saying he remained in contact with top Trump officials and Cabinet secretaries.

	Trump, in a Friday afternoon gaggle aboard Air Force One, said he was unaware of the report that Flynn had discussed the sanctions with the Russian ambassador but said he would "look into that."


https://www.justsecurity.org/37466/disrupting-white-house-peter-thiels-influence-shaping-national-security-council/

Small world for these people

------

This related

https://pastebin.com/U2EDK3Ge


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/03/trump-national-security-mcmaster-overrule-236065
    Cohen-Watnick was brought onto Trump’s transition team and then the NSC by a leading critic of the CIA: retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, who was Cohen-Watnick’s boss at the Defense Intelligence Agency and preceded McMaster as national security adviser.



http://www.france24.com/en/20170215-usa-trump-knew-weeks-ago-ousted-national-security-adviser-flynn-misled-white-house
    Just six days into his term, US President Donald Trump was informed that his national security adviser had misled his vice president about contacts with Russia.
 
    Trump kept his No. 2 in the dark and waited nearly three weeks before ousting the aide, Michael Flynn, citing a slow but steady erosion of trust, White House officials said Tuesday.
 
    …The explanation of the episode left many questions unanswered, including why Trump didn't alert Pence to the matter and why Trump allowed Flynn to keep accessing classified information and taking part in the president's discussions with world leaders up until the day he was fired.
 
    White House officials also struggled to explain why Trump counselor Kellyanne Conway had declared the president retained "full confidence" in Flynn just hours before the adviser had to submit his letter of resignation.


http://www.militarytimes.com/articles/trump-changes-relationship-between-white-house-spy-agencies
    Officials have expressed an interest in having more raw intelligence sent to the president for his daily briefings instead of an analysis of information compiled by the agencies, according to current and former U.S. officials. The change would have given his White House advisers more control about the assessments given to him and sidelined some of the conclusions made by intelligence professionals.
 
    One official said the focus on accessing more raw intelligence appeared to be more of a priority under the short tenure of Michael Flynn, who was ousted as national security adviser after less than one month on the job. He was replaced by H.R. McMaster, an Army lieutenant general who was expected to exert more control over the NSC but has found himself struggling to overcome skepticism among Flynn holdovers who have the ear of Bannon.


http://forward.com/fast-forward/366169/ezra-cohen-watnick-kept-in-national-security-post-after-trump-intervenes/
	McMaster had told Ezra Cohen-Watnick, senior director for intelligence programs at the NSC, that he would be moved to a different position at the NSC after CIA officials had pushed for his ouster, according to Politico.

	Trump overruled the decision on Sunday after Cohen-Watnick, 30, appealed to White House advisers Stephen Bannon and Jared Kushner, Trump’s Jewish son-in-law, Politico reported.



------

www.cnn.com/2017/02/10/politics/flynn-russia-us-sanctions-reports/

	President Donald Trump said Friday afternoon he was unaware of reports that his national security adviser, Michael Flynn, may have spoken about sanctions with the Russian ambassador before the inauguration.
	Trump, speaking to reporters aboard Air Force One, said he will "look into that."

Trump Feb 10 says unaware Flynn spoke about sanctions

	Earlier Friday, a senior White House adviser told CNN that Vice President Mike Pence did not know that Flynn may have discussed sanctions in the December conversation and believes "it's a problem."


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/flynn-holds-call-with-pence-amid-calls-for-probes-of-contacts-with-russian-ambassador/2017/02/10/f8fb83a0-efe1-11e6-9973-c5efb7ccfb0d_story.html?utm_term=.79cbeb4495fd

Feb 10 Flynn Apologizes to Pence


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/justice-department-warned-white-house-that-flynn-could-be-vulnerable-to-russian-blackmail-officials-say/2017/02/13/fc5dab88-f228-11e6-8d72-263470bf0401_story.html?utm_term=.9f172506d36a

	From that call and subsequent intercepts, FBI agents wrote a secret report summarizing ­Flynn’s discussions with Kislyak.

	Yates, then the deputy attorney general, considered Flynn’s comments in the intercepted call to be “highly significant” and “potentially illegal,” according to an official familiar with her thinking.


------

https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2017/02/14/press-briefing-press-secretary-sean-spicer-2142017-12

	The President was very concerned that General Flynn had misled the Vice President and others.  He was also very concerned in light of sensitive subjects dealt with by that position of national security advisors -- like China, North Korea and the Middle East -- that the President must have complete and unwavering trust for the person in that position.

	 The evolving and eroding level of trust as a result of this situation and a series of other questionable instances is what led the President to ask for General Flynn’s resignation.  Immediately after the Department of Justice notified the White House Counsel of the situation, the White House Counsel briefed the President and a small group of senior advisors.  The White House Counsel reviewed and determined that there is not a legal issue, but rather a trust issue.

	During this process it’s important to note that the President did not have his Attorney General, Jeff Sessions, who he trusts immensely, approved by the Senate.  When the President heard the information as presented by White House Counsel, he instinctively thought that General Flynn did not do anything wrong, and the White House Counsel’s review corroborated that.


...

	Q    And why would the President -- if he was notified 17 days ago that Flynn had misled the Vice President, other officials here, and that he was a potential threat to blackmail by the Russians, why would he be kept on for almost three weeks?

	MR. SPICER:  Well, that’s not -- that assumes a lot of things that are not true.  The President was informed of this.  He asked the White House Counsel to review the situation.  The first matter was whether there was a legal issue.  We had to review whether there was a legal issue, which the White House Counsel concluded there was not, as I stated in my comments.  This was an act of trust.  Whether or not he actually misled the Vice President was the issue, and that was ultimately what led to the President asking for and accepting the resignation of General Flynn.  That’s it, pure and simple.  It was a matter of trust.  


....

MR. SPICER:  No, there is -- I can't say it clearly enough.  There was nothing in what General Flynn did, in terms of conducting himself, that was an issue.  What it came down to, plain and simple, was him misleading the Vice President and others, and not having a firm grasp on his recollection of that.  That's it.


...

 Q    Let me go back to what you said at the beginning.  You said the White House Counsel's Office reviewed this and determined that there was nothing illegal.  What evidence did they look at in making this determination?  And secondly, Democrats up on the Hill say that they want an investigation of this.  They're looking into what did the President know and when did he know it.  So can you tell us what evidence you looked at the White House Counsel's Office, and what did the President know about all of this and when was he aware of it?

MR. SPICER:  Well, as I mentioned, the first day that the Department of Justice made White House Counsel available -- or sought to notify White House Counsel was January 26th.  The President was immediately informed of the situation.  As I said, based on the information that was provided at the time, the view was that this was not a violation.  He was proved instinctively correct.  And White House Counsel at that time undertook an extensive review both of materials and questioning --

Q    Did they --

MR. SPICER:  I'm not going to get into the specifics.  What I will tell you is, on multiple occasions they had an exhaustive and extensive questioning of General Flynn on several occasions based on information that was provided to them, or materials that were provided to them to review.  I'm not going to get into the details of that, but I will just say that there was an exhaustive review.  


...


 Q    Why not dismiss the General on January 27th?  Why, if the question was of trust, and immediately you have on the 15th, he's on "Face the Nation" saying that -- the Vice President on "Face the Nation" saying that this is what General Flynn told me, and then January 26th you hear the opposite -- why not immediately act?  Why wait another two and a half weeks?

MR. SPICER:  I don’t understand how that's a due process.  Because what the -- the Attorney General didn’t come -- the Acting Attorney General -- come in and say that there was an issue.  She said, we wanted to give you a head's up that there may be information, okay?  She could not confirm there was an investigation.  And so it would be unbelievably short-sighted and wrong to go in and dismiss someone immediately.  In fact, what the President did was take decisive action to make sure that the White House Counsel thoroughly reviewed and vetted the situation.  He took immediate, decisive action.  And if you look at the timeline in terms of what he did and how that expanded, the White House Counsel's first and foremost goal was to make sure that there was not a legal issue at hand.  Once that was concluded, then it became a phase of determining whether or not the General's action on this and a whole host of other issues undermined his trust in the President.  But the President, from day one, from minute one, was unbelievably decisive in asking for and demanding that his White House Counsel and their team review the situation, first and foremost, to question whether it's a legal issue.  And what they immediately determined -- not immediately, but within several days, was that, after review, that there was not a legal issue, and then it moved into a second phase.


...


 Q    I know you just forgot.  I have a question, but I want you to clarify something you just said to John.  Are you saying that no one has read the transcripts of the calls, or you just don’t want to tell us whether they -- 

MR. SPICER:  I said that I'm not going to comment on it.


...


 Q    That was an announcement from Haley, not the President.

MR. SPICER:  She speaks for the President.  I speak for the President.  All of us in this administration.  And so all of the actions and all of the words in this administration are on behalf and at the direction of this President.  So I don’t think we could be any clearer on the President’s commitment.


...


 Q    Sean, you’ve been asked a couple times about these transcripts of calls.  Will the White House declassify those and release them?

MR. SPICER:  Looks, it is inappropriate for me to comment on those at this time.  Right now, the focus is on some of the evolving issues that were going around the globe, as you know.

Q    Will you be open to it?

MR. SPICER:  Let me answer the question.  It is not an issue that has come up.  I think the President right now is focused on replacing his national security advisor, making sure that he’s presented with the best possible information to make these key decisions.

But at this time, we also have got to be careful that we were not involving ourselves in a matter of national security.  And the review, as I mentioned, was done and then immediately last night when the President felt as though it was time for a decision, made it.  That’s where we are in this iteration of the process.  If we have anything further for you, we will update you.

...

 Q    Sean, can you just clarify, because I got a little turned around -- did President Trump, or President-elect Trump at the time, know of General Flynn’s discussion of the sanctions while he was NSC-designate?  And if not, when did he finally learn about them?  And if so, why was he okay with that?

MR. SPICER:  So, no, he was not aware, as he’s not back-briefed on every conversation that his national security team has or other staffers.  They were performing their duties, as other people were in terms of getting up to speed, conveying with counterparts and previous members of their team.  

That being said, when he was made aware of it, once the White House Counsel briefed him on concerns the Department of Justice had -- and at that point, as I mentioned, what he asked and what he believed at the time and was confirmed by White House Counsel was that there was no legal issue here.  Discussing the issue didn’t violate anything; it was appropriate in the normal course of action to discuss that.  And he immediately asked the White House Counsel to further confirm what his instincts were at the time.

Thank you, guys.  Have a great one.  We’ve got everybody for a bill signing.  We’ve got a bill signing. 

Q    I didn’t get my --

MR. SPICER:  Oh, he’s got -- Margaret gets a follow-up, but he’s got --

Q    Are you -- is the administration undertaking any sort of effort, either Cabinet-wide or, like, inside the shop to make sure that everyone comes forward who had any communications with the Russians about sanctions or otherwise?

MR. SPICER:  There’s no other information.  I mean, as far as we are aware, that is an isolated incident that occurred.  And again, the key point in this isn’t that there were discussions.  There was nothing wrong or inappropriate about those discussions.  It purely came down to a matter of trust.  That’s it.

Thank you, guys.  See you tomorrow.  Happy Valentine’s Day. 


...


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2017/02/10/trump-executive-order-obama-justice-department-succession/97752898/
	That time, Trump went outside the official order of succession — as he has the right to do — to elevate Dana Boente, the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, to acting attorney general.


http://www.newsweek.com/who-dana-boente-acting-attorney-general-trump-fired-sally-yates-550460

Sign on Boente immediately after Yates fired

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/acting-attorney-general-an-obama-administration-holdover-wont-defend-trump-immigration-order/2017/01/30/a9846f02-e727-11e6-b82f-687d6e6a3e7c_story.html?utm_term=.dbf2ece61a69

	The move came just hours after Yates ordered the Justice Department not to defend Trump’s immigration order, declaring in a memo that she was not convinced the order is lawful. Yates wrote that, as the leader of the Justice Department, she must ensure that the department’s position is “legally defensible” and “consistent with this institution’s solemn obligation to always seek justice and stand for what is right.”


	...Boente (pronounced BEN-tay), who was sworn in at 9 p.m., said he would serve until Sessions is confirmed, which he understood from news reports might happen by week’s end. He declined to say when or by whom he was approached to take over as acting attorney general, and he also declined to discuss the specifics of Yates’s memo.

	Boente is a longtime federal prosecutor who has a remarkably low-key demeanor, although he has supervised high-profile investigations and prosecutions. Assistant U.S. attorneys from his office were involved in the probe of Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server, and they won the criminal convictions — which were later vacated — against former Virginia governor Robert F. McDonnell (R). Boente also led the prosecutions of former U.S. representative William J. Jefferson (D-La.) and former New Orleans mayor Ray Nagin (D). At his swearing-in ceremony as U.S. attorney, then-Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch called him “that reliable middle child, the one you could always count on to be there for you.”

	Boente would not have been first in the line of succession ordered by Obama, who had placed U.S. attorneys in the District of Columbia, Chicago and Los Angeles ahead.


...


http://abcnews.go.com/US/timeline-flynns-firing-special-prosecutor/story?id=47460505

a timline including some of the above and more

http://www.npr.org/2017/02/14/515233669/michael-flynn-left-the-trump-white-house-this-week-heres-how-that-happened

another timeline
