http://www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1510/22/se.02.html


	My question to you, Madam Secretary, is, was it a mistake -- for the four years that you had that email arrangement, was it a mistake for the almost two years that you kept the public record to yourself, or has it manifested itself as a mistake in just the last six months?

	CLINTON: Well, since I believed that all of my work related emails to dot-gov accounts were being captured and preserved, it wasn't until I was asked to help the State Department to fill in what they saw as some record-keeping gaps, not just with me, but with others, I did the best I could during those four years and thought that everything that I was emailing that was work related was being preserved. 


but then she says Abedin did state business on her clintonemail.com account


http://archive.is/2015.10.23-033623/https:/www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/10/22/transcript-clinton-testifies-before-house-committee-on-benghazi/

	CLINTON: Well, I'd be happy to explain. Every morning when I arrived at the State Department, usually between 8:00 and 8:30, I had a personal one-on-one briefing from the representative of the Central Intelligence Agency who shared with me the highest level of classified information that I was to be aware of on a daily basis.
	I then had a meeting with the top officials of the State Department every day that I was in town. That's where a lot of information, including threats and attacks on our facilities, was shared. I also had a weekly meeting every Monday with all of the officials, the assistant secretaries and others, so that I could be brought up to date on any issue they were concerned about.

seems to show she's knowledgable about classified info? or testifies as much


------

	What does the word unsolicited mean to you?

	CLINTON: It means that I did not ask him to send me the information that he sent me, and as I have previously stated, some of it I found interesting, some of it I do not. Some of it I forwarded, some of it I do not.

	I did not know anything about any business interest. I thought that, just as I said previously, newspaper articles, journalists, of which he is one -- a former journalist -- had some interesting insights. And so, you know, we took them on board and evaluated them, and some were helpful and others were not.


Clinton says she didn't ask Blumenthal to keep emailing her classified information

but she would say "thx" sometimes... a bit misleading, no?

http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/blumenthal-emails-show-clinton-encouraged-unsolicited-intelligence/article/2566805

	"Greetings from Kabul!" Hillary Clinton wrote to her trusted former aide, Sidney Blumenthal, on the morning of July 7, 2012. "And thanks for keeping this stuff coming!"

hmmm

so she lied about Blumethan, doesn't this establish that she had something to hide?


	You wrote to him, Another keeper, thanks and please keep them coming. Greetings from Kabul and thanks for keeping this stuff coming. Any other info about it? What are you hearing now? Got it, we'll follow up tomorrow. Anything else to convey?

	Now, that one is interesting because that was the very e-mail where Mr. Blumenthal was asking you to intervene on behalf of a business deal that he was pursuing in Libya.


	What did you mean by What are you hearing now?


	CLINTON: I have no idea, Congressman.

	They started out unsolicited and, as I said, some were of interest. I passed them on, and some were not. And so he continued to provide me information that was made available to him.

	GOWDY: I -- I don't want to parse words and -- and I don't want to be hypertechnical, because it's not a huge point, but it is an important point. You didn't say they started off unsolicited. You said they were -- you said they were unsolicited.
CLINTON: Well, they were unsolicited. But obviously, I did respond to some of them.

	GOWDY: Well, anything else...

	CLINTON: ... And I'm sure that encouraged him.


contradicting herself?

she is sure she encouraged him to send more emails, but the emails were "unsolicited"

------

	JORDAN: This is -- and it has everything to do, because we want the record, so we can get to the truth, and maybe if the gentleman -- if the gentleman from Washington would have shown up for more than just one hour of one interview, he might know a little more about the situation as well, and the lack of getting the record.

	Of course, this second statement, the revised statement, was after this committee had contacted Huma Abedin, Jake Sullivan, Philippe Reines, asking for their personal accounts, which of course you knew would mean we would get their e-mails.

	And that first statement in March was not accurate. In March, you said no classified information was sent or received on your personal accounts. You later revised your statement and said no information marked classified was sent or received on your personal account.

	And once again, your revised statement was after the inspector general for the intelligence community had examined your e-mails and determined that, yes, some indeed were classified.

	Secretary Clinton, seems like there's a pattern, pattern of changing your story. In March you say one thing, the truth comes out, weeks and months later, you say something else.

	That's not being the most transparent person ever. That's not even being transparent.

	So if your story about your e-mails keeps changing, then how can we accept your statement that you've turned over all work related e- mails and all e-mails about Libya?

	CLINTON: Well, Congressman, I have said repeatedly that I take responsibility for my use of personal e-mail. I've said it was a mistake. I've said that it was allowed, but it was not a good choice.

	When I got to the department, we were faced with a global financial crisis, major troop decisions on Afghanistan, the imperative to rebuild our alliances in Europe and Asia, an ongoing war in Iraq, and so much else.

	E-mail was not my primary means of communication, as I have said earlier. I did not have a computer on my desk. I've described how I did work: in meetings, secure and unsecured phone calls, reviewing many, many pages of materials every day, attending... 


------


	JORDAN: Will you provide this committee -- or can you answer today, what were the search terms?

	CLINTON: The search terms were everything you could imagine that might be related to anything, but they also went through every single e-mail.


why would she lie about that?


So she says classified info on her server, then says "they also went through every single e-mail"

So here she's saying, under oath, that she gave uncleared people access to classified info


------

	JORDAN: And what were the date parameters? What -- what date did you start, what was the end date, and the e-mails in between that we're going to look at?

	CLINTON: Well, Congressman, I asked my attorneys to oversee the process. I did not look over their shoulder. I did not dictate how they would do it. I did not ask what they were doing and how they made their determinations (ph).

	JORDAN: So you don't know? You don't know what terms they used to determine which ones were your e-mails and which ones the State Department got, and therefore we might get?

	CLINTON: You know, The State Department had between 90 and 95 percent of all the ones that were work related. They were already on the system. In fact, this committee got e-mails...


so she testifies (and says to FBI) she doesn't know much about how her lawyers determined what's work-related and what's not, altough she does testify they "went over every single e-mail"


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	GOWDY: Secretary Clinton said her lawyers read every one of the e-mails and were overly inclusive. Did her lawyers read the e-mail content individually?

	COMEY: No.


so did she lie? I guess alibi could be someone assured her every email was looked at


------

	But I want to talk to you just a little bit about your e-mails. And that is that I think you said it was October that you received a letter that asked you and former secretary of states (sic) to present all their e-mails. Is that correct?

	CLINTON: That's my memory, yes.

	WESTMORELAND: OK. Now, in August, the State Department met with your attorneys to talk about the lack of the e-mails that they had. Did you know that?

	CLINTON: I didn't at the time, no.

	WESTMORELAND: You didn't know that they were meeting -- that the State Department was meeting with your attorneys?

	CLINTON: Not -- not at that time. And as you also recall, the State Department was beginning to turn over to this committee my e- mails because they had between 90 and 95 percent of all my work- related e-mails in the State Department system.


	...I know you've got a group of them there sitting behind you, but how many attorneys does it take to go through 65,000 e-mails in two months?

	CLINTON: Well, first of all, the process to provide information to the Congress with respect to Benghazi started before I left the State Department. There was a concerted effort to gather up any information that might be responsive... 

trying to make the case that she would have known her lawyers didn't have time to review every email?


------


	WESTMORELAND: If they were gathering e-mails, you had to tell them that you had a private server when you were there.

	CLINTON: Well, the -- the server is not the point, it's the account. And I made it a practice to send e-mails that were work- related to people on their government accounts. In fact, you know, Secretary Kerry is the first Secretary of State to rely primarily on a government account. So... 


Is that true? doesn't seem like it


So why does she insist she didn't know about this meeting between her lawyers and State

seems weird to not know about something like that

and why is this important


------

	POMPEO: Were you aware or are you aware of any U.S. efforts by the U.S. government in Libya to provide any weapons, directly or indirectly, or through a cutout, to any Syrian rebels or militias or opposition to Syrian forces?

	CLINTON: No. 

wouldn't it be funny if this is what she was lying under oath about


why would Pompeo ask about something like that and then become director of CIA

	POMPEO: Were you aware or are you aware of any efforts by the U.S. government in Libya to facilitate or support the provision of weapons to any opposition of Gadhafi's forces, Libyan rebels or militias through a third party or country?

	CLINTON: No.

	POMPEO: Did you ever consider the idea of using private security experts to arm the opposition?

	CLINTON: Private security?

	POMPEO: Yes, ma'am. Did -- I'll ask the question again. Did you ever at any time consider the idea of using private security experts to arm the opposition in Libya? CLINTON: Not seriously, no.


------

	POMPEO: Yes, ma'am. But when the initial attack occurred, you had no idea how long the incidence would continue, did you?

	CLINTON: It was over within an hour.

	POMPEO: Yes, ma'am. There was a subsequent attack and could have been a third and a fourth. So when the initial attack occurred, did you have any idea what the magnitude and the duration of the events of that night would be?

	CLINTON: Congressman, I don't understand your question. We knew that the attack was over. We knew that our diplomatic security team had to evacuate from the compound to the CIA annex, and we were in a frantic search to find Ambassador Stevens.


Isn't it kindof obvious to expect followup attacks? never heard of a situation where terrorists attack and U.S. doesn't even bother sending forces or anybody to secure the site


	POMPEO: Yes, ma'am. But several hours elapsed and there was a subsequent attack, and you didn't know that that subsequent attack would take place, I'll concede that. My question is: Why was heaven and earth not moved at the initial sound of the guns, maybe even putting tankers in the air from McConnell Air Force Base in Kansas? You simply didn't know how long this series of events was going to continue, nor did you know how long the risk to the people that worked for you was going to remain.

	CLINTON: Congressman, you will have to ask the Defense Department these questions. We certainly asked that all effort be made to deploy any assets that could be of use in Benghazi. I know that they put a number of assets in the United States, in Europe, on alert. But we were advised that it would take a number of hours to get there. And with respect to the CIA annex, you should talk with the intelligence community about that.


a moot point... and didn't they have a UAV there anyway?

either bad intel and retarded, or something strange going on here...


------

one of the terrorists removed documents

	POMPEO: Madam Secretary, do you know where that material that was looted went? Do you know into whose hands it fell? And do you know the nature and contents of that material? You seem very confident it wasn't classified. I don't share your confidence. But nonetheless, do you know where that material went?

	CLINTON: I think that it -- it is very difficult to know where it ended up. But I want to just reiterate the point that I made. This was not a facility that had the capacity to handle classified material. And there was, to the best of our information, Congressman, no classified material at the Benghazi facility.


why is she so adamant that nothing classified was there?


------

	CLINTON: Well, the procedure is not to have classified material at such a facility. And again, to the best of our knowledge, there was not any there.

	POMPEO: Yes, ma'am. You're not supposed to have classified e- mail on your private server either.

	CLINTON: And I did not, Congressman.


testifies under oath no classified info on her server


------

	POMPEO: There was an e-mail that was from Mr. Blumenthal and (inaudible) before that, also discussing the same situation. Do you know who Mark Turrey (ph) is?

	CLINTON: No, I don't recall that I know who that is.

	POMPEO: He was a private trafficker in weapons. He was working with Mr. Stevens and attempting to develop an authorization with the State Department so that he could in fact deliver those weapons into Libya. Does that -- any of that ring a bell to you?

	CLINTON: No, it does not.


the guy who's trial Obama nixed iirc?

"I don't recall that I know who that is"

a wierd way to answer that question


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/10/marc-turi-libyan-rebels-hillary-clinton-229115
	Obama DOJ drops charges against alleged broker of Libyan weapons

	Arms dealer had threatened to expose Hillary Clinton’s talks about arming anti-Qadhafi rebels.


	...The deal averts a trial that threatened to cast additional scrutiny on Hillary Clinton’s private emails as Secretary of State, and to expose reported Central Intelligence Agency attempts to arm rebels fighting Libyan leader Moammar Qadhafi.


	...During 2013 Senate hearings on the 2012 Benghazi attack, Clinton, under questioning from Sen. Rand Paul (R-Kentucky), said she had no knowledge of weapons moving from Libya into Turkey, for ultimate transfer to Syria.

	Wikileaks head Julian Assange in July suggested that he had emails proving that Clinton “pushed” the “flows” of weapons “going over to Syria.”


so that would be something she'd want to hide

	Additionally, Turi’s case had delved into emails sent to and from the controversial private account that Clinton used as Secretary of State, which the defense planned to harness at any trial.

And supposedly would have been on her private server?


------

	GOWDY: Madam Secretary, that actually was not my question. My question was, whether or not the previous congressional committees and ARB had access to your emails. That was of my question.

	CLINTON: Ninety to 95 percent of my work related emails were in the State's system, if they wanted to see them, they would certainly have been able to do so. 


kindof dodging the question? basically says the ARB and previous commitees would have been able to see her emails "in the states system."

------

	Let me ask you this. You say that you turned over everything. I don't get a chance to watch you a lot on television, but when I see you are interviewed, you make a point of saying, I turned over everything.

	CLINTON: All my work related emails, yes.

	GOWDY: How do you know that?

	CLINTON: I know that because there was an exhaustive search done under the supervision of my attorneys, and that is exactly the outcome. We turned over every work related email, in fact, as somebody referred to earlier, we turned over too many. 


so she is saying she "knows" because she "trusts" her attorneys? but even right there pointing out some work-related emails were not turned over

	GOWDY: And you have a really...
	GOWDY: ... good group of attorneys, which makes me wonder...
	GOWDY: ... how they missed 15 of them.

	CLINTON: Well if you are talking about Mr. Blumenthal, which I assume you are, he had some that I didn't have, and I had some that he didn't have. And he -- I was under no obligation to make any of his emails available unless I decided they were work related.

	And the ones that I decided that were work related I forwarded to the state.gov accounts of the people with whom I worked. 


So is she saying this as a general rule of hers? if she decided something was work-related, she would forward it to a state.gov email? and that's how she "knows?"


	GOWDY: Madam Secretary, is there any question that the 15 that James Cole turned over to us were work related? There's no ambiguity about that. They were work related.

	CLINTON: No. They were from a personal friend, not any official government -- not any government official. And they were, I determined on the basis of looking at them, what I thought was work related and what wasn't. And some I didn't even have time to read, Mr. Chairman. 

	...GOWDY: The 15 -- my question to you, on the 15, did your lawyers find them and decide that they were not work related or did they not find them?

	CLINTON: Well, I don't know why he had emails I didn't. And I don't know why, apparently, I had emails he didn't. And all I can tell you is that I turned over every work related email in my possession.

she dodges the question, apparently saying she didn't have the 15 emails? 


	GOWDY: I probably can't do it.

	You see my point, though, you are very definitive when you're talking to the American people, that you turned over everything.

	CLINTON: That's right.

	GOWDY: But those kind of lawyerly fudge words when you are talking to court on information and belief, and the reality is even tonight, you cannot tell us that you turned over everything, because you didn't think you missed the 15.

	CLINTON: Well, I didn't have them, I turned over everything I had. Everything I had has been turned over to the State Department.

	GOWDY: Which means the system you had somehow missed those 15.

	CLINTON: Well...

dodging again, saying somehow those 15 emails weren't in her "system."


------

	GOWDY: Last question on your system. Mr. Cummings said that your email arrangement was inappropriate. I think the president may have said it was a mistake. You have said that it was a mistake.

	My question to you, Madam Secretary, is, was it a mistake -- for the four years that you had that email arrangement, was it a mistake for the almost two years that you kept the public record to yourself, or has it manifested itself as a mistake in just the last six months?

	CLINTON: Well, since I believed that all of my work related emails to dot-gov accounts were being captured and preserved, it wasn't until I was asked to help the State Department to fill in what they saw as some record-keeping gaps, not just with me, but with others, I did the best I could during those four years and thought that everything that I was emailing that was work related was being preserved. 


so what I'm seeing here is: Clinton says she thought everything work related was being "well-preserved" because she was forwarding work-related emails to state.gov accounts
