http://www.nationalreview.com/article/439401/hillary-clintos-e-mails-reveal-special-favors-meetings-clinton-foundation-donors


	The Clinton team says there’s no proof of that. Both Clinton and many of her critics can get ahead of the facts, though in opposite directions. But one thing is clear: Clinton lied. That’s not shocking; she’s famous for doing that. Just last month, Clinton said, “There is absolutely no connection between anything that I did as secretary of state and the Clinton Foundation.” During her confirmation hearings, members of the Obama administration and Congress extracted assurances from Clinton that there would be a high wall between her State Department and her family’s foundation. It turned out it was more like a turnstile.


http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2016/08/10/emails-raise-new-questions-on-ties-between-clinton-foundation-state-department.html
	Published August 10, 2016

	A new batch of emails released Tuesday is raising fresh questions about whether Clinton Foundation donors got preferential treatment from the State Department during Hillary Clinton's tenure at the top. 


http://www.foxnews.com/transcript/2016/07/31/hillary-clinton-on-tight-race-accusations-against-trump.html
	And there is absolutely no connection between anything that I did as secretary of state and the Clinton Foundation.  So, people can say that, but I’m proud of our philanthropic work, our personal/family philanthropic work, the work of the Clinton Foundation.  


So she started lying about it in late July, after Comey let her off the hook

also 

	I'd like to see Donald Trump's tax returns to find out how much philanthropy he's ever done.  


I forgot she used this as a campaign talking point. I remember it sounding grating and annoying whenever someone brought up Trump's taxes and it made me think there was probably nothing there

Maybe intentional? they would have Clinon politicize his tax returns if there's something actually big in there


------


https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?q=Clinton%20Foundation

Interest picked up late July, peaked early august, then again early november 2016


also a blip April 19 - April 25


------


https://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2015/04/12/hillary-clinton-resigns-from-board-of-clinton-foundation/
	4/12/15

	But her resignation comes as Republicans have hammered her almost daily for the last six weeks about the Foundation’s fund-raising from other countries.


------


http://www.chicagotribune.com/business/chi-clinton-foundation-20150426-story.html

so IIRC schwizer a Russian agent, at least I remember he did some weird things that make it easy to pin him as such (but what were they...)


I wonder if this was intentional? write Clinton Cash, make it very politicized, hand it to FBI to prompt Clinton Foundation investigation

then Clinton campaign made a point of FBI "basing" their investigation on Clinton Cash book (is that even remotely true?) to politicize/discredit FBI

but it does look like they knew what was in Clinton's emails and wanted this FBI investigation to happen. Could have been the plan from the beginning: time FOIA reuqests, other things just right sot that Clnton ends up under FBI investigation exactly during the election against Trump


	The Clinton campaign spent much of last week blasting the book as a partisan attack. Still, the statement on Sunday was a sign that the growing focus on the $2 billion foundation and its relationship with donors may have begun to rattle Clinton's team.

	"So yes, we made mistakes, as many organizations of our size do, but we are acting quickly to remedy them, and have taken steps to ensure they don't happen in the future," Pally said in the statement, which appeared under the headline "A Commitment to Honesty, Transparency, and Accountability."


CF talking head covering for foundation not properly reporting donations


	But it has received increased scrutiny in recent days, after a New York Times report last week examined the role of Giustra and another donor in a sequence of deals that led to a Russian state-owned company controlling large deposits of uranium around the world, including in the United States.

	The deals with the Russians, because of national security implications, required approval by a committee of officials from U.S. government agencies, including the Clinton-led State Department. Clinton aides have said she did not personally intervene in the decision.


------


http://www.chicagotribune.com/business/ct-hillary-clinton-foundation-campaign-finance-reform-perspec-0426-jm-20150424-column.html#nt=simple-embed
	Bill and Hillary Clinton are to money what the Gulf of Mexico is to the Mississippi River: the inevitable destination of a large and never-ending flow, which is sometimes polluted.

	...In her recent political travel, Hillary didn't want to get into questions involving her finances or her husband's, raised in a forthcoming book by Peter Schweizer. "Well, we're back into the political season and therefore we will be subjected to all kinds of distractions and attacks and I'm ready for that," she said dismissively.


------


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/note-hillary-hearts-hampshire/story?id=30468512


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/hillary-clinton-republicans-talking/story?id=30455226


how do they find someone like this

she is horrifying

everything about her invites rage


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/hillary-clinton-republicans-talking/story?id=30455226
	Q: Secretary Clinton your reaction please to these book allegations--did foreign entities receive any special treatment from making any kind of donations to the Clinton Foundation or your husband?

	CLINTON: Well, we're back into the political season, and therefore we will be subjected to all kinds of distractions and attacks, and I'm ready for that. I know that that comes, unfortunately, with the territory. It is, um, I think worth noting that eh, the Republicans seem to be, uh, talking only about me. I don't know what they'd talk about if I weren't in the race, but I am in the race, and hopefully we'll get on to the issues and I look forward to that.


"I'm ready"


	"Hillary's going to raise $2.5 billion -- that's a lot of Chipotle, my friends," quipped Florida senator and Republican presidential candidate Marco Rubio. 

Rubio wanted to lose from the beginning


------


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/white-house-address-reports-preferential-treatment-clinton-foundation/story?id=30454720
	I know there's been a lot of accusations made about this, but not a lot of evidence," Press Secretary Josh Earnest told reporters at the daily briefing. "The president continues to be extraordinarily proud of the work that Secretary Clinton did as the secretary of State. But for the details of some of those accusations, I'd refer you to Secretary Clinton's campaign."

	5 Things Hillary Clinton Accomplished In Iowa (And 5 Questions That Still Remain)

	Hillary Clinton Running For President In 2016 As A 'Champion' For 'Everyday Americans'

	"I'm not going to be in a position here where every time somebody raises a spurious claim, that I'm going to be the one sit down here and say that it's not true," Earnest explained to ABC's Jonathan Karl.

	Earnest noted that the administration and the Clinton Foundation signed a memorandum of understanding before Clinton took the helm of the State Department in 2009, saying it went "above and beyond the ethical guidelines that the federal government previously had in place." 


Obama admin denies it, admits broke the memorandum


lol Josh Ernst can't assue that Clinton didn't quid-pro-quo with the Russians/sell out State dept.

What a fucking joke of a government

we shoulda shot em


wonder how much Clinton's emails had to do with the way Obama acted?

Clinton and State dept basically acting like a giant mole

but beyond giving intel, also would be giving Rusia kompromat on basically entire Obama admin

after release of DNC and podest emails Obama would know they could release Clinton state and Clinton foundation emails, Obama's emails as well

important point that it would be plausibly deniable for them to release too, since Clinton's security was so lax would be easy to have third party unskilled hackers lift her emails


https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-22/clinton-foundation-said-to-be-breached-by-russian-hackers
	Clinton Foundation Said to Be Breached by Russian Hackers


http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/hacker-releases-clinton-foundation-documents/article/2594452
	Hacker releases Clinton Foundation documents

------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clinton_Cash

Clinton cash released May 5, 2015

	The day the book was published, Hillary Clinton's campaign set up a portal called "The Briefing" on its official website. The Briefing is designed to rebut the allegations made in Schweizer's book. Clinton's campaign manager, John Podesta, wrote: "The book has zero evidence to back up its outlandish claims... While we will not be consumed by these kinds of attacks, we will also not let them go unchallenged."[9] Various spokespeople for Hillary and Bill Clinton disputed the book's allegations,[10] e.g. concerning the charges that Clinton was paid for speeches by Irish billionaire Denis O'Brien of Digicel in exchange for help in securing telecommunications contracts in Haiti in 2010


	In a brief news conference on the campaign trail last month, Hillary Clinton was asked whether she regretted the way the foundation had handled foreign donations.

	“I am so proud of the foundation,” she said in Cedar Falls, Iowa. “It attracted donations from people, organizations from around the world, and I think that just goes to show that people are very supportive of the lifesaving and life-changing work it’s done here at home and elsewhere.”

------

http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/emails-suggest-hillary-helped-clinton-foundation-donors/article/2567431

list of potential quid-pro-quos with CF

http://www.cnn.com/2015/08/27/politics/hillary-clinton-state-department-citizens-united/index.html

more quid pro quo allegations

	A Clinton campaign spokesman referred questions about the O'Leary proposal to the Clinton Foundation. A person familiar with the matter said the Friends of the Clinton Centre isn't affiliated with the Clinton Foundation



http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/bill-clinton-sought-state-department-paid-speeches-related/story?id=33369277
 	The catch? The dictators of Congo and the Democratic Republic of the Congo would both be attending -- and required photos with Bill Clinton. The speaking fee? A whopping $650,000. 


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/clinton-foundation-reveals-up-to-26million-in-additional-payments/2015/05/21/e49da740-0009-11e5-833c-a2de05b6b2a4_story.html?utm_term=.4f42322d5018
	The foundation, which has raised $2 billion since Bill Clinton left the White House, has emerged as a political headache for Hillary Clinton amid recent controversies over donations. The foundation, along with the Clintons’ paid speaking careers, have provided additional avenues for foreign governments and other interests to gain entrée to one of America’s most prominent political families. Some Republicans have charged that Hillary Clinton, during her tenure as secretary of state, was in a position to reward foundation donors.



------


http://www.mcclatchydc.com/news/politics-government/election/article85253837.html

	“Do I have a problem when a sitting secretary of state and a foundation run by her husband collects many, many dollars from foreign governments, governments which are dictatorships? Yeah, I do have a problem with that. Yeah, I do,” Sanders told CNN on June 5.

Trump and Sanders attacked her, how did she respond?


	Some foundation contributors have connections to the Panama Papers – documents by the law firm Mossack Fonseca establishing offshore entities. They include Russian investor Sergei Kurzin and Canadian mining magnate Frank Giustra, who has traveled the world with former President Bill Clinton, largely aboard Giustra’s luxurious private jet.


Interesting

	Trump added that Clinton “has spent her entire life making money for special interests, and I will tell you, she’s made plenty of money for them and she’s been taking plenty of money out for herself.”

	Clinton’s campaign dismissed the accusations. “The only thing Donald Trump offered today was more hypocritical lies and nutty conspiracy theories,” campaign spokesman Glen Caplin said.


------


http://www.latimes.com/politics/la-na-trailguide-clinton-defends-the-clinton-foundation-1465479379-htmlstory.html
	 The Clinton Foundation may have fallen short on disclosing details about a few donations, Hillary Clinton acknowledged, but she downplayed the instances as aberrations rather than a systemic failure of disclosure.

	“We had absolutely overwhelming disclosure,” she said in an interview with CNN’s Anderson Cooper . “Were there, you know, one or two instances that slipped through the cracks? Yes. But was the overwhelming amount of anything that anybody gave the foundation disclosed? Absolutely.” 



http://www.cnn.com/2016/06/08/politics/hillary-clinton-vice-president/




https://archive.org/details/CNNW_20160609_040000_Anderson_Cooper_360



http://edition.cnn_com.ln11xuan551.trade/TRANSCRIPTS/1606/08/acd.01.html


	COOPER: Trump has said he is clearly going to focus on the Clinton Foundation. Last night said, and I quote, the Russians, the Saudis, the Chinese all gave money to the foundation and quote, got favorable treatment in return. The foundation has obviously, raised huge sums of money for worthy causes. It's always not been transparent though. Tens of millions come from a Canadian partnership whose donors remain secret. There was a large donation from Algeria that wasn't submitted to State Department for approval. If you're president, will your husband divest himself of any association with the foundation?

	CLINTON: Well, Anderson, we'll cross that bridge if and when we come to it, but let me try to set the record straight. We had absolutely overwhelming disclosure. Were there one or two instances that slipped through the cracks, yes. But was the overwhelming amount of anything that anybody gave the foundation disclosed, absolutely. And I'm proud of the foundation. I'm proud of the work that it has done. Nine million people have lower cost HIV AIDS medicine because of the work of the Clinton Foundation my husband. 


Clinton dodges question, downplays undisclosed donations

	[22:05:00] COOPER: But some big donors clearly want the association with you or your husband that they linked to the foundation gives them. As president, obviously, it's vital that you and your husband not to appear to be in any way compromised. So I guess have you considered the idea of him stepping down?

	CLINTON: Again, I'm not going to consider anything until we see what the circumstances are. But let me just point out that people give lots of money to presidential campaigns, don't they? They give lots of money to political parties as well. So, you know, that's money that goes directly to support political activities of candidates. Money that has been given to the foundation goes to support humanitarian work. And if people want to influence anybody in office, I think they would choose the political route and indeed the work of the foundation speaks for itself.

	COOPER: Out on the campaign trail, one of the things you said several weeks ago is your husband might be put in charge of revitalizing the economy. Is that something you're seriously looking at, a position for him in that regard?

	CLINTON: Well, I'm looking for his good advice and his extraordinary understanding of what we've got to do to help distressed communities in America. Those that are dealing left out and left behind. We got to have a real focus on helping communities from Appalachia and coal country to Indian country to inner-city neighborhoods and that's what I think he would bring to any discussion that we were having about what are the best ways to do that, because he has a terrific track record. Both as president, as governor before that, and indeed he actually wrote a book about putting America back to work. And through the Clinton foundation has helped to create jobs. Has helped to train people for jobs.

	So he has a wealth of experience and I'm looking forward to tapping into that and finding out what we can do. I want all hands on deck when it comes to revitalizing the economy. I feel a very personal responsibility. You know, and honestly, Anderson, some places I am going to pay attention to, I don't think they're going to vote for me. I said that when I was in coal country. But I am going to support them and my husband is going to be working with my team to try to figure out what we can do to restore hope and opportunity in a lot of those places. 


dodges question on Bill divesting himself from CF, says he will be involved in Clinton administration


------

so reported as "Clinton asserts foundation discloses its donors," which seems accurate of what she says, but that is false

http://www.latimes.com/politics/la-na-trailguide-clinton-defends-the-clinton-foundation-1465479379-htmlstory.html


------

quid pro-quo:

http://dailycaller.com/2016/06/27/emails-clinton-donor-rajiv-fernando-asked-to-be-on-state-dept-panel/



http://www.npr.org/sections/itsallpolitics/2015/04/27/402625347/fact-check-is-the-clinton-foundation-the-most-transparent

	"Hillary Clinton's family's charities are refiling at least five annual tax returns after a Reuters review found errors in how they reported donations from governments, and said they may audit other Clinton Foundation returns in case of other errors. ... The charities' errors generally take the form of under-reporting or over-reporting, by millions of dollars, donations from foreign governments, or in other instances omitting to break out government donations entirely when reporting revenue...."
