
http://edition.cnn_com.ln11xuan551.trade/TRANSCRIPTS/1606/08/acd.01.html
	CLINTON: Well, Anderson, we'll cross that bridge if and when we come to it, but let me try to set the record straight. We had absolutely overwhelming disclosure. Were there one or two instances that slipped through the cracks, yes. But was the overwhelming amount of anything that anybody gave the foundation disclosed, absolutely. 


http://media.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/politics/documents/memorandum_of_understanding_clinton.pdf
	WHEREAS, the Parties also seek to ensure that the activities of the Foundation, however beneficial, do not create conflicts or the appearance of conflicts for Senator Clinton as Secretary of State.

	WHEREAS the Parties have agreed to a set of protocols that would apply to the Foundation's activities to supplement any existing State Department protocols for managing conflicts of interests, and the appearance of conflicts of interest, as determined by the State Department's designated agency ethics official

	WHEREAS, the Parties seek to memorialize the mutually agreeable protocols related to the activities of the Foundation during the period in which Senator Hillary Clinton Serves in the Obama Administration.

	NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows: 

	...Publication of Foundation Contributors. In anticipation of Senator Clinton's nomination and confirmation as Secretary of State, the Foundation will publish its contributors this year. During any service by Senator Clinton as Secretary of State, the Foundation will publish annually the names of new contributors. 


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-clinton-donations-idUSKBN0MF2FQ20150319
	Exclusive: Despite Hillary Clinton promise, charity did not disclose donors

	At the outset, the Clinton Foundation did indeed publish what they said was a complete list of the names of more than 200,000 donors and has continued to update it. But in a breach of the pledge, the charity's flagship health program, which spends more than all of the other foundation initiatives put together, stopped making the annual disclosure in 2010, Reuters has found.

	In response to questions from Reuters, officials at the Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI) and the foundation confirmed no complete list of donors to the Clintons' charities has been published since 2010. CHAI was spun off as a separate legal entity that year, but the officials acknowledged it still remains subject to the same disclosure agreement as the foundation.  

	The finding could renew scrutiny of Clinton's promises of transparency as she prepares to launch her widely expected bid for the White House in the coming weeks.

	...The State Department said it was unable to cite any instances of its officials reviewing or approving new money from any foreign governments. Daley confirmed that none of the seven government donations had been submitted to the State Department for review.


http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/293507-seven-ways-the-clinton-foundation-failed-to-meet-its-transparency-promises
	Seven ways the Clinton Foundation failed to meet its transparency promises


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/foreign-governments-gave-millions-to-foundation-while-clinton-was-at-state-dept/2015/02/25/31937c1e-bc3f-11e4-8668-4e7ba8439ca6_story.html
	In one instance, foundation officials acknowledged they should have sought approval in 2010 from the State Department ethics office, as required by the agreement for new government donors, before accepting a $500,000 donation from the Algerian government.

	The money was given to assist with earthquake relief in Haiti, the foundation said. At the time, Algeria, which has sought a closer relationship with Washington, was spending heavily to lobby the State Department on human rights issues.

	While the foundation has disclosed foreign-government donors for years, it has not previously detailed the donations that were accepted during Clinton’s four-year stint at the State Department.


http://www.npr.org/sections/itsallpolitics/2015/05/19/407981227/after-a-month-the-7-questions-hillary-clinton-answered-from-the-media
	"Secretary Clinton, do you regret the way that the Clinton foundation handled foreign donations when you were secretary of state? And your opponents say that the foreign donations and private emails are examples of the Clintons having one set of rules for themselves and one for everyone else. Do they have a point?"

	Clinton: "I am so proud of the foundation. I'm proud of the work that it has done and it is doing. It attracted donations from people, organizations from around the world and I think that just goes to show that people are very supportive of the lifesaving and life-changing work it's done here at home and elsewhere.

	"And I'll let the American people make their own judgments about that."


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-foundation-idUSKBN12Z2SL
	Clinton's charity confirms Qatar's $1 million gift while she was at State Dept

	Clinton signed an ethics agreement governing her family's globe-straddling foundation in order to become secretary of state in 2009. The agreement was designed to increase transparency to avoid appearances that U.S. foreign policy could be swayed by wealthy donors.

	If a new foreign government wished to donate or if an existing foreign-government donor, such as Qatar, wanted to "increase materially" its support of ongoing programs, Clinton promised that the State Department's ethics official would be notified and given a chance to raise any concerns.

	Clinton Foundation officials last month declined to confirm the Qatar donation.

	...Foundation officials told Reuters last year that they did not always comply with central provisions of the agreement with President Barack Obama's administration, blaming oversights in some cases.

	At least eight other countries besides Qatar gave new or increased funding to the foundation, in most cases to fund its health project, without the State Department being informed, according to foundation and agency records. They include Algeria, which gave for the first time in 2010, and the United Kingdom, which nearly tripled its support for the foundation's health project to $11.2 million between 2009 and 2012.


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-clinton-taxes-exclusive-idUSKBN0NE0CA20150423
	Hillary Clinton's family's charities are refiling at least five annual tax returns after a Reuters review found errors in how they reported donations from governments, and said they may audit other Clinton Foundation returns in case of other errors.

	...The charities' errors generally take the form of under-reporting or over-reporting, by millions of dollars, donations from foreign governments, or in other instances omitting to break out government donations entirely when reporting revenue, the charities confirmed to Reuters.

	...The unsettled numbers on the tax returns are not evidence of wrongdoing but tend to undermine the 990s role as a form of public accountability, experts in charity law and transparency advocates told Reuters.


http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/13/us/politics/13text-clinton.html
	CLINTON: ...My husband doesn't take a salary. He has no financial interests in any of this. I don't take a salary. I have no financial interests. So out of that abundance of caution and a desire to avoid even the appearance, the president-elect's transition team began working with the foundation to try to craft an agreement that would avoid the appearance of a conflict but would also ensure that the foundation can continue its work.


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/onpolitics/2016/10/27/memo-shows-bill-clintons-wealth-tied-clinton-foundation/92842822/
	Doug Band, a long-time aide to Bill Clinton, wrote the 2011 memo as part of an internal audit at the Clinton Foundation. In trying to explain his role in the Foundation, Band also brought up a series of instances he and his consulting company, Teneo Holdings, helped Bill Clinton secure for-profit contracts.

	The memo, which was being circulated to some in Clinton's inner circle including Podesta, reinforces Republican criticisms of the blurred lines between the foundation and professional interests of the Clintons and their associates.

	“Independent of our fundraising and decision-making activities on behalf of the Foundation, we have dedicated ourselves to helping the President secure and engage in for-profit activities — including speeches, books, and advisory service engagements," Band wrote. "In that context, we have in effect served as agents, lawyers, managers and implementers to secure speaking, business and advisory service deals. In support of the President’s for-profit activity, we also have solicited and obtained, as appropriate, in-kind services for the President and his family — for personal travel, hospitality, vacation and the like.”

	At one point, Band even referred to the former president’s money-making enterprises as “Bill Clinton, Inc.”


http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/24/us/cash-flowed-to-clinton-foundation-as-russians-pressed-for-control-of-uranium-company.html
	Cash Flowed to Clinton Foundation Amid Russian Uranium Deal

	Before Mrs. Clinton could assume her post as secretary of state, the White House demanded that she sign a memorandum of understanding placing limits on the activities of her husband’s foundation. To avoid the perception of conflicts of interest, beyond the ban on foreign government donations, the foundation was required to publicly disclose all contributors.

	To judge from those disclosures — which list the contributions in ranges rather than precise amounts — the only Uranium One official to give to the Clinton Foundation was Mr. Telfer, the chairman, and the amount was relatively small: no more than $250,000, and that was in 2007, before talk of a Rosatom deal began percolating.

	But a review of tax records in Canada, where Mr. Telfer has a family charity called the Fernwood Foundation, shows that he donated millions of dollars more, during and after the critical time when the foreign investment committee was reviewing his deal with the Russians. With the Russians offering a special dividend, shareholders like Mr. Telfer stood to profit.


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/hillary-clinton-republicans-talking/story?id=30455226
	Q: Secretary Clinton your reaction please to these book allegations--did foreign entities receive any special treatment from making any kind of donations to the Clinton Foundation or your husband?

	CLINTON: Well, we're back into the political season, and therefore we will be subjected to all kinds of distractions and attacks, and I'm ready for that. I know that that comes, unfortunately, with the territory. It is, um, I think worth noting that uh, the Republicans seem to be, uh, talking only about me. I don't know what they'd talk about if I weren't in the race


http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/13/us/politics/13text-clinton.html
	CLINTON:  ...In this particular case, the Office of Government Ethics and the career ethics officials at the State Department have looked at the rules and concluded there is not an inherent conflict of interest in any of my husband's work at all.

	However, the foundation and the president-elect decided to go beyond what the law and the ethics rules call for to address even the appearance of conflict and that is why they signed a memorandum of understanding, which outlines the voluntary steps that the foundation is taking to address potential concerns that might come up down the road.


http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/24/us/cash-flowed-to-clinton-foundation-as-russians-pressed-for-control-of-uranium-company.html
	...And shortly after the Russians announced their intention to acquire a majority stake in Uranium One, Mr. Clinton received $500,000 for a Moscow speech from a Russian investment bank with links to the Kremlin that was promoting Uranium One stock.



http://edition.cnn_com.ln11xuan551.trade/TRANSCRIPTS/1606/08/acd.01.html
	COOPER: But some big donors clearly want the association with you or your husband that they linked to the foundation gives them. As president, obviously, it's vital that you and your husband not to appear to be in any way compromised. So I guess have you considered the idea of him stepping down?

	CLINTON: Again, I'm not going to consider anything until we see what the circumstances are. But let me just point out that people give lots of money to presidential campaigns, don't they?

	...COOPER: Out on the campaign trail, one of the things you said several weeks ago is your husband might be put in charge of revitalizing the economy. Is that something you're seriously looking at, a position for him in that regard?

	CLINTON: Well, I'm looking for his good advice and his extraordinary understanding of what we've got to do to help distressed communities...

	...So he has a wealth of experience and I'm looking forward to tapping into that and finding out what we can do...


http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/bill-clinton-sought-state-department-paid-speeches-related/story?id=33369277
	Bill Clinton Sought State Department OK For Paid Speeches Related to North Korea, Congo, New E-mails Show

 	...The catch? The dictators of Congo and the Democratic Republic of the Congo would both be attending -- and required photos with Bill Clinton. The speaking fee? A whopping $650,000. 


------


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2003%20of%2010/view
	pg 174

	[REDACTED] was interviewed by Special Agent (SA) [REDACTED] and SA [REDACTED] at the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)

	...[REDACTED] concluded the interview by stating that DOS has shown an increased tendency to communicate via email. He believed that they did this for simplicity, to avoid unauthorized disclosures such as Wikileaks, and to prevent other USG partners from seeing their "back channel" discussions.


https://apnews.com/82df550e1ec646098b434f7d5771f625/many-donors-clinton-foundation-met-her-state
	Many donors to Clinton Foundation met with her at State

	More than half the people outside the government who met with Hillary Clinton while she was secretary of state gave money — either personally or through companies or groups — to the Clinton Foundation. It’s an extraordinary proportion indicating her possible ethics challenges if elected president.

	At least 85 of 154 people from private interests who met or had phone conversations scheduled with Clinton while she led the State Department donated to her family charity or pledged commitments to its international programs, according to a review of State Department calendars released so far to The Associated Press. Combined, the 85 donors contributed as much as $156 million. At least 40 donated more than $100,000 each, and 20 gave more than $1 million.

	Donors who were granted time with Clinton included an internationally known economist who asked for her help as the Bangladesh government pressured him to resign from a nonprofit bank he ran; a Wall Street executive who sought Clinton’s help with a visa problem; and Estee Lauder executives who were listed as meeting with Clinton while her department worked with the firm’s corporate charity to counter gender-based violence in South Africa.

	The meetings between the Democratic presidential nominee and foundation donors do not appear to violate legal agreements Clinton and former president Bill Clinton signed before she joined the State Department in 2009. But the frequency of the overlaps shows the intermingling of access and donations, and fuels perceptions that giving the foundation money was a price of admission for face time with Clinton. Her calendars and emails released as recently as this week describe scores of contacts she and her top aides had with foundation donors.


http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/13/us/politics/13text-clinton.html
	CLINTON: Well, again, this is an agreement that has been worked out between all of the parties and the fact is that the concerns that were raised in the discussions between the foundation and the president-elect's team were thoroughly discussed and they believe, and I agree, that the transparency and disclosure that is needed, which, as you said yourself, it goes beyond any kind of legal or ethical consideration.

	And not only that, there will be ongoing -- there will be ongoing reviews by anything that is brought to the attention of the career professionals.

	But I just have to go back, Senator, and try to set the record straight. [Clinton Global Initiative] is not in the memorandum of understanding because they already have a practice of disclosing all of their contributions. There is no need to require it.

	I will certainly state here that they're going to continue the practice which they've already done.


https://apnews.com/82df550e1ec646098b434f7d5771f625/many-donors-clinton-foundation-met-her-state
	...American affiliates of his nonprofit Grameen Bank had been working with the Clinton Foundation’s Clinton Global Initiative programs as early as 2005, pledging millions of dollars in microloans for the poor. Grameen America, the bank’s nonprofit U.S. flagship, which Yunus chairs, has given between $100,000 and $250,000 to the foundation

	...“Please see if the issues of Grameen Bank can be raised in a friendly way,” he asked Verveer. Yunus sent “regards to H” and cited an upcoming Clinton Global Initiative event he planned to attend.

	...Clinton ordered an aide: “Give to EAP rep,” referring the problem to the agency’s top east Asia expert.

	...In another case, Clinton was host at a September 2009 breakfast meeting at the New York Stock Exchange that listed Blackstone Group chairman Stephen Schwarzman as one of the attendees. Schwarzman’s firm is a major Clinton Foundation donor, but he personally donates heavily to GOP candidates and causes. One day after the breakfast, according to Clinton emails, the State Department was working on a visa issue at Schwarzman’s request. In December that same year, Schwarzman’s wife, Christine, sat at Clinton’s table during the Kennedy Center Honors. Clinton also introduced Schwarzman, then chairman of the Kennedy Center, before he spoke.


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/30/opinion/cutting-ties-to-the-clinton-foundation.html
	Cutting Ties to the Clinton Foundation

	When Mrs. Clinton became secretary of state, the Obama administration tried to draw a line between the foundation, particularly its foreign-government sponsors, and her role. The new emails underscore that this effort was at best partly successful. “Pay-to-play” charges by Donald Trump have not been proved. But the emails and previous reporting suggest Mr. Trump has reason to say that while Mrs. Clinton was secretary, it was hard to tell where the foundation ended and the State Department began.

	Mrs. Clinton became involved in State Department deals and negotiations that also involved foundation donors or board members. She prompted multiple investigations with an arrangement that allowed Huma Abedin, her deputy chief of staff at the State Department and now vice chairwoman of her campaign, to be paid simultaneously by the State Department, the foundation and Teneo, a consulting firm run by Doug Band, the former adviser to Mr. Clinton who helped create the foundation — and who sent emails to Ms. Abedin seeking favors for foundation donors.

	The newly disclosed emails show that some foundation donors and friends, like Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad bin al-Khalifa of Bahrain, used foundation channels to seek access to Mrs. Clinton. 


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/02/us/politics/emails-raise-new-questions-about-clinton-foundation-ties-to-state-dept.html
	Emails Raise New Questions About Clinton Foundation Ties to State Dept.

	WASHINGTON — A top aide to Hillary Clinton at the State Department agreed to try to obtain a special diplomatic passport for an adviser to former President Bill Clinton in 2009, according to emails released Thursday, raising new questions about whether people tied to the Clinton Foundation received special access at the department.

	The exchange about the passport, between Mr. Band and Huma Abedin, who was then a top State Department aide to Mrs. Clinton, was included in a set of more than 500 pages of emails made public by Judicial Watch, a conservative legal group that sued for their release.

	“Need get me/justy and jd dip passports,” Mr. Band wrote to Ms. Abedin on July 27, 2009, referring to passports for himself and two other aides to Mr. Clinton, Justin Cooper and John Davidson.

	“We had them years ago but they lapsed and we didn’t bother getting them,” Mr. Band wrote.

	Ms. Abedin emailed back six minutes later to say, “OK will figure it out.”

	Mr. Band did not explain in the email exchange why he and the others needed the diplomatic passports, and Ms. Abedin did not ask.


http://www.cnn.com/2015/08/27/politics/hillary-clinton-state-department-citizens-united/index.html
	Group: Emails show Clinton, aides mixed State Department, foundation business


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/08/hillary-clinton-emails-state-foundation-226897
 	Ethicists: Clinton team violated ‘spirit’ of pledge 

	The emails, which Clinton failed to include in the “work-related” cache she turned over to the State Department, show open lines of communication between the old Clinton hands running the family’s multimillion-dollar charity and those who’d moved on to help her run the State Department. The State Department was forced to turn over the emails to Judicial Watch, a conservative watchdog group, in a Freedom of Information Act case. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/a-porous-ethical-wall-between-the-clinton-foundation-and-the-state-department/2016/08/14/f068899e-60b8-11e6-af8e-54aa2e849447_story.html
	A porous ethical wall between the Clinton Foundation and the State Department


http://www.mcclatchydc.com/news/politics-government/election/article99388232.html
	Ethics wall between State, Clinton Foundation didn’t extend to staff

	An official at the Clinton Global Initiative sent top State Department aide Melanne Verveer a 63-page list of individuals, groups and companies that had pledged money to its programs.

	An employee at another Clinton Foundation offshoot emailed Verveer looking for a job for a former colleague.

	Yet another asked whether Verveer could persuade Myanmar’s internationally acclaimed leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, to attend an event.

	Verveer, a longtime Hillary Clinton confidante who served as her chief of staff at the White House before becoming ambassador at large for global women’s issues, was in regular contact with Clinton Foundation officials during her four years at the State Department, according to dozens of emails.

	...While Clinton had signed an ethics agreement to largely remove herself from issues involving her family’s foundation after she became the nation’s top diplomat in 2009, the document did not apply to her aides at the State Department.

	...“I'm . . . scratching my head about why people inside the State Department didn't think it was a good idea to insulate senior officials and their staff from any Clinton Foundation activities,” said Scott Amey, general counsel for the Project on Government Oversight. “Restrictions applied to Hillary, but those restrictions should have applied to other officials too.”

	...The emails show the close, friendly relations between State Department and Clinton Foundation officials, providing a level of access that other groups undoubtedly wished they had with the administration.


http://www.cnn.com/2016/08/11/politics/hillary-clinton-cgi-cheryl-mills/index.html
	A top aide to Hillary Clinton at the State Department traveled to New York to interview job candidates for a top job at the Clinton Foundation, a CNN investigation has found.

	The fact that the aide, Cheryl Mills, was taking part in such a high level task for the Clinton foundation while also working as chief of staff for the secretary of state raises new questions about the blurred lines that have dogged the Clintons in recent years.

	...E-mails obtained through the Freedom of Information Act and released by the conservative watchdog group Judicial Watch this week raise new questions about the intermingling of Clinton Foundation business, its donors and employees under Hillary Clinton's control as a public servant. They suggest Foundation officials had no problem trying to curry favor for jobs by emailing top Clinton aides like Mills and Huma Abedin, who is now a senior adviser to Clinton's presidential campaign.


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-clinton-teneo-idUSKCN0SV05M20151106
	The Republican-led Senate Judiciary Committee has been investigating since 2013 whether Teneo had improper access to the highest levels of U.S. government while Clinton, the favorite to become the Democratic Party's presidential nominee, was secretary of state. 

	...Founders and other workers at Teneo have also worked for the Clintons, the State Department, the Clinton Foundation or a combination of the three. Teneo describes itself as "a global advisory firm that partners exclusively with the CEOs and senior leaders of many of the world’s largest and most complex companies and organizations."

	...For a time in 2012 through early 2013, Abedin simultaneously had four overlapping sources of income: the State Department, Teneo, the Clinton Foundation and Clinton's private office.

	...Clinton has said she was not directly involved in getting Abedin the waiver, known as special government employee status, which loosens some ethics restrictions that bind full-time government employees.

	The special status was created in the 1960s to allow the government to temporarily bring in expertise from the private sector.


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/09/mills-immunity-228580
	Top Hillary Clinton aide Cheryl Mills received an immunity deal from the Justice Department in the FBI’s investigation into the former secretary of state’s private email server, records shown to Congress revealed Friday, re-injecting the email controversy into the presidential campaign just days before her first debate with Donald Trump.


https://www.wsj.com/articles/laptop-may-include-thousands-of-emails-linked-to-hillary-clintons-private-server-1477854957

https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/fbi-in-internal-feud-over-clinton-probe/ar-AAjCtQu
	FBI in Internal Feud Over Hillary Clinton Probe

	New details show that senior law-enforcement officials repeatedly voiced skepticism of the strength of the evidence in a bureau investigation of the Clinton Foundation, sought to condense what was at times a sprawling cross-country effort, and, according to some people familiar with the matter, told agents to limit their pursuit of the case. The probe of the foundation began more than a year ago to determine whether financial crimes or influence peddling occurred related to the charity. 

	Some investigators grew frustrated, viewing FBI leadership as uninterested in probing the charity, these people said. Others involved disagreed sharply, defending FBI bosses and saying Mr. McCabe in particular was caught between an increasingly acrimonious fight for control between the Justice Department and FBI agents pursuing the Clinton Foundation case.

	It isn’t unusual for field agents to favor a more aggressive approach than supervisors and prosecutors think is merited. But the internal debates about the Clinton Foundation show the high stakes when such disagreements occur surrounding someone who is running for president.

	The Wall Street Journal reported last week that Mr. McCabe’s wife, Jill McCabe, received $467,500 in campaign funds in late 2015 from the political-action committee of Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe, a longtime ally of the Clintons and, until he was elected governor in November 2013, a Clinton Foundation board member.

	...other Clinton-related investigations were under way within the FBI, and they have been the subject of internal debate for months, according to people familiar with the matter.

	Early this year, four FBI field offices—New York, Los Angeles, Washington and Little Rock, Ark.—were collecting information about the Clinton Foundation to see if there was evidence of financial crimes or influence-peddling, according to people familiar with the matter.

	...In February, FBI officials made a presentation to the Justice Department, according to these people. By all accounts, the meeting didn’t go well.

	Some said that is because the FBI didn’t present compelling evidence to justify more aggressive pursuit of the Clinton Foundation, and that the career anticorruption prosecutors in the room simply believed it wasn’t a very strong case. Others said that from the start, the Justice Department officials were stern, icy and dismissive of the case.

	“That was one of the weirdest meetings I’ve ever been to,” one participant told others afterward, according to people familiar with the matter.

	Anticorruption prosecutors at the Justice Department told the FBI at the meeting they wouldn’t authorize more aggressive investigative techniques, such as subpoenas, formal witness interviews, or grand-jury activity. But the FBI officials believed they were well within their authority to pursue the leads and methods already under way, these people said.

	...Others, particularly Justice Department anticorruption prosecutors, felt that both probes were weak, based largely on publicly available information, and had found little that would merit expanded investigative authority.

	...In September, agents on the foundation case asked to see the emails contained on nongovernment laptops that had been searched as part of the Clinton email case, but that request was rejected by prosecutors at the Eastern District of New York, in Brooklyn. Those emails were given to the FBI based on grants of partial immunity and limited-use agreements, meaning agents could only use them for the purpose of investigating possible mishandling of classified information.


https://judiciary.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/114-91_22125.pdf
	Mr. MARINO. ...was there additional immunity for Ms. Mills stating that anything on that computer cannot be used against her?

	Mr. COMEY. As I recall it, Congressman, the act-of-production immunity for Ms. Mills was: You give us this computer; we will not use—we, the Justice Department—anything we find on the computer directly against you in connection with investigation or prosecution for mishandling of classified information. I think that is how they defined it.

	Mr. MARINO. But that goes beyond act of production. Doesn’t act of production simply state that I am the agent, I can’t get on the stand and say that belongs to that individual because they simply gave it to me? It sounds like more, additional immunity was given that says: And what is on this we cannot hold against you.

	Mr. COMEY. Well, I think of it as—I still think of it as an act- of-production immunity. From my experience, that is what I would characterize that agreement.

	...Mr. MARINO. ...Why not empanel and investigative grand jury whereby you have reasonable suspicion that a crime may have been committed, and then you have the ability to get warrants, subpoenas, get this information, subpoena witnesses before the grand jury under oath ...wouldn't that have been much simpler and more effective than the way this has gone about? ...

	Mr. COMEY. Yeah. No, it is a reasonable  question. And I don’t want to talk about grand jury in connection with this case or any other case—— 

	...Mr.MARINO. I understand that clearly. Why did you not decide to go to an investigative grand jury? It would have been cleaner, it would have been much simpler, and you would have had more authority to make these witnesses testify—not the target, but the witness testify. That seems the way to go, Director. We have done it thousands of times. This just was too convoluted. 

	Mr .COMEY. Yeah, again, I need to steer clear of talking about grand jury use in a particular matter. In general, in my experience, you can often do things faster with informal agreements, especially when you are interacting with lawyers. In this particular investigation, the investigative team really wanted to get access to the laptops that were used to sort these emails. 

	Mr.MARINO. Okay. When was—— 

	Mr. COMEY. Those are lawyers’ laptops. That is a very com-plicated thing. I think they were able to navigate it pretty well to get us access. 


https://judiciary.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/114-91_22125.pdf
	Ms. JACKSONLEE. ...I understand that the FBI does not make the final call on immunity agreements. That was the DOJ. You made that clear. ...But did you consult closely with DOJ before these immunity agreements were concluded by giving—by having facts?

	Mr. COMEY. Right. Our job is to tell them what facts we would like to get access to. The prosecutor’s job is figure out how to do that. And so they negotiate—I think there were five limited immunity agreements of different kinds that they negotiated.

	Ms. JACKSONLEE. Did you or anyone at the FBI ever object to these decisions to grant immunity? Did you think they made sense?

	Mr. COMEY. No. It was fairly ordinary stuff.

	Ms. JACKSONLEE. Was the FBI or DOJ handing out immunity agreements like candy?

	Mr. COMEY. That is not how I saw it. I didn’t see it—— 


https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/fbi-in-internal-feud-over-clinton-probe/ar-AAjCtQu
	Some FBI agents were dissatisfied with that answer, and asked for permission to make a similar request to federal prosecutors in Manhattan, according to people familiar with the matter. Mr. McCabe, these people said, told them no and added that they couldn’t “go prosecutor-shopping.”

	Not long after that discussion, FBI agents informed the bureau’s leaders about the Weiner laptop, prompting Mr. Comey’s disclosure to Congress and setting off the furor that promises to consume the final days of a tumultuous campaign.


https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-22/clinton-foundation-said-to-be-breached-by-russian-hackers
	Clinton Foundation Said to Be Breached by Russian Hackers


http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/13/us/politics/13text-clinton.html
	CLINTON: ...But I can absolutely guarantee you that I will keep a very close look on how this is being implemented. I will certainly do everything in my power to make sure that the good work of the foundation continues without there being any untoward effects on me and my service and be very conscious of any questions that are raised.

	But I think that the way that this has been hammered out is probably as close as we can get to doing something that is so unprecedented that there is no formula for it. And we've tried to do the very best we could.

	LUGAR: Well, my time is concluded. But let me just say that the situation is unprecedented when a first lady and her distinguished husband and a foundation come together with a State Department hearing of this sort.

	I am hopeful that, as we go through the history of this, that people will not say, well, Senator Lugar, Senator Kerry, and others were pressing it. They saw the problems. And we'll get full credit, but that will not be helpful to our foreign policy, to you, to your husband, to the foundation.

	This is why I plea for you, really, to give even more consideration -- it may not be a decision made today because I appreciate the negotiations have been sizeable. And you are a good negotiator and so is your husband. So are those who have worked for you. I admire that. It's a good things for a State Department official and, particularly, the secretary of state.

	But this seems to me to be so important at the outset. This is why I've dwelled upon it, trying your patience and that of the committee, because I think it is very important. And I think you understand that.

	CLINTON: I do. And I respect you so much, Senator. And I can, you know, certainly guarantee to you that I will remain very sensitive to this and I will work with you and the chairman as we go forward.

	LUGAR: Thank you.

	CLINTON: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
