---

pg 1 -- interview of PRN employee, 09/14/15
FBI and DOJ attorneys present

employee's concern was "general direction of business."

aware that PRN mainted a backup of their server known as DATTO. Maintained data for up to 60 days before it was deleted.

CESC = account name for clinton server.

In March 2015, Clinton wanted to know what emails PRN had, where they were, how they were backed up.

---

pg 3 -- interview of PRN employee, 05/23/16
interviewed by FBI, 2 attorney's present at "the [redacted]", not sure if DOJ or not.

non-technical person

laptop of Clinton email archived shipped to PRN Feb 2014, employee "not aware."

Was "not aware" of email file transmitted, or what specifically was requested by CESC.
Guessing FBI knows, named who did request. What would they do with a file of emails though?
Maybe they sent the emails they want deleted?

Not aware of requests to "delete, wipe, or shred" emails.

FBI showed him emails, then he talked, said they hid CESC business from other PRN employees, said no backups of their servers (a lie?), gave everything they have on CESC to the FBI.

Unaware of deletions of DATTO device.

---

pg 5 -- interview of white house (intern?) working for Clintons, 04/19/16
Interview of subject with his attorneys present.

Is this an interview of Cooper? pg 6. (confusing)

Had no knowledge of backups of Apple or Exchange server.

---

pg 7 -- interview of defense contractor employee, aslo owns domestic data collection company, 06/06/16
FBI present, no DOJ, no lawyers

Senior staff of state senate judiciary comittee worked with Newt Gingrich and DHD to try to see if any of Clinton's emails were leaked.

Also spoke with [redacted] at Judicial watch.

Judicial watch funded, found Blumenthal's emails on a server in Romania.

Found a potentially classified document.

---

pg 10 -- interview of PRN employee, 09/14/2015 
FBI and DOJ lawyers present

Wanted to keep number of employees working on CESC server small, selected 3.

---

pg 12 -- interview of PRN employee, 05/23/2016
Also present, attorneys at the [redacted]

Copy of the pg3 one? what? no, a little different.

Showed an email and he talked.

After email server went public, entertained idea of hiring company to do penetration testing, but didn't do it. (why? an excuse for the email? An excuse for a coverup?)

Again, unuware of a March 25, 2015 conerence call.

---

pg 14 -- interview of Clinton person, 02/4/2016 

the apple server had the capability to backup data.

Wait, Clinton has this person remove trash from a SCIF? and go inside without a clearance? hmm

Would print out secret docs for Clinton.

---

pg 16 -- interview of CEO of some gov contractor?, 03/23/16
FBI interviewed, no DOJ

Advised subject hdr22@clintonemail.com had 37 login attempts from thee [redacted]-owned IP addresses.

Demoed some software they have on a laptop in his office. Does something to data.
Hmm, does social media monitoring.

Generates alerts for new social media posts relating to [redacted].

Confirmed that two of the IP addresses belonged to [redacted], and third may have belonged to his company? what?

"does not contain historical logs for searches that are conducted by their clients."

"In order to protected the FBI's inquiry at [redacted]", searched for two additional presidential candidates.

What??

Working with FBI, posits searches were done by one of their "good guy" clients, possibly to conduct a damage assessment of the social media footprint associated with that email addres.

Likes the FBI.

Who is this company? Palintir?

---

pg 19 -- interview of CEO (some security company?), 04/14/2016

FBI present, no DOJ

Wanted to know if this company had done any penetration testing of clintonemail.com domain.

Says no testing, friends with PRN guys, discussed it ~6 months before media coverage of server.

Have good relationship with PRN, help them with security.

Recalls several emails about Clinton with PRN.

Secret service SA told this CEO he had recently served a warrant at PRN. Why?

CEO guy says it was due to the FBI investigation, USSS claims it was a different matter.

FBI asked if he uses the [redacted] social media cyber-security product, he says not.

Likes FBI.

--

pg 22 -- interview of DATTO employee, 11/24/2015

No DOJ present, subject's lawyers present.

They provide cloud services and backups. Work with PRN. Claim not to know CESC.

PRN contacted DATTO and requested Clinton's backups be stored locally and privately instead of on a secure cloud. First time DATTO got something like that from PRN, non-standard.

PRN tried to backup locally, messed up and sent some of the emails to the cloud. At some point they realized this and changed this.

PRN must have known the data was backed up on the cloud, DATTO found records of deletion by PRN in March 2015.

shipped new SIRIS 2000 device on 08/13/15 after lawyers were involved, since last one had no encryption.

Did the FBI get the backups?

---

pg 25 -- Interview of FBI's Records Management Division employee, 07/30/2015
Interviewed by FBI agents.

Got an email to be released in FOIA request of state, found out that one of them might be classified, referred to CTD. CTD relayed findings to DOS.

State Office of Legal Counsel agnry, says [redacted] does not have "official government" therefore FBI can't classify based on PGI caveat. (what is PGI caveat?)

State upset the FBI classified an email someone sent to (Clinton?)

FBI agent reported that Patrick Kenedy asked for a "quid pro quo" to change the classification.

Wait, if this guy says "quid pro quo," why did the FBI deny any attempt at quid-pro-quo occurred?

Kennedy at a meeting kept trying to influence the FBI to change their markings (idiot). FBI kept insisting it was secret, referred to Micheal Steinbach of CTD.

Kennedy keeps pressuring Steinbach to mark non classified.

This 302 completely clears the FBI. Who the fuck was this "spokesman" saying "oh there was no quid-pro-quo they just happened to talk about it at the sametime." Wtf?

Kenedy concerned about FBI or state conducting the public statements on this. FBI says no. Minutes later, AP leaks the Clinton email classification story.

The RMD employee things State has an agenda which involves minimizing the classified nature of the CLINTON emails in order to protect State and Clinton.

Guessing chaffetz is mad not because the FBI engages in quid-pro-quo, but because they waited to release this bombshell.

Wtf is Herridge doing? Spreading conspiracies that the FBI was caught in quid-pro-quo.

---

pg 28 -- Interview of retired FBI "International Operations Division" employee, 09/03/2015

Interviewed by FBI agents.

Got along with Patrick Kennedy, but disagreed with rule of FBI overseas.

Was surprised Kennedy contacted him, since other higher-ups had been trying to contact him for months. Kennedy wanted him to change the classification of the email the RMD employee classified so it would never be released.

"Not yet knowing the email's content, [redacted] told Kennedy he would look into the e-mail matter if Kennedy would provide authority concerning the FBI's request to increase its personnel in Iraq."

So, quid-pro-quo. Why did the FBI "spokesperson" lie? wtf? (he sounds like a Russian agent jesus)

This was after it was leaked that Clinton sent classified data, now sounds like Kennedy wanted a particular email buried.

The email was related to the attacks on Benghazi!!! Once he found out, IOD guy says "now way he can assist with declassifying the information contained in the email."

Reported incident to ANDERSON and BOLES.

---

pg 30 -- Interview of Owner/CTO of [redacted], 12/16/2015 
FBI agents there, and subject's attorney.

Not sure, one of the potential bidders for Clinton's email?

No knowledge of moving emails, laptop backups, temporary backups

---

pg 32 -- Interview of PRN employee, 05/23/2016
FBI agents, and attorneys at the [redacted]

Not aware of any laptop shipped to PRN.

Not aware of any trip made to the Equinix data center.

Cheryl Mills told them to preserve some emails on 03/09/2015, PRN denies.

No knowledge of conference call on 03/25/2015 or 03/31/2015, stated never requested their email content be deleted, wiped, or shredded.

--

pg 34 -- Interview of Clinton assistant, 06/29/2016
FBI and DOJ people were on the call.

(note: Comey's statement was on 07/05/2016, a week later.)

Denied ever using Tor.

Works at Clinton Foundation, has @presidentclinton.com email account.


FBI asked her about details of which devices she used to access her @presidentclinton.com email account.

Didn't recall unusual spam or fishing activity in January, 2013. Was in New York on January 5, 2013.

Guessing FBI thought she was used to hack Clinton's emails?

---

pg 35 -- Interview of PRN employee, 09/14/2015
FBI and DOJ attorneys present.

PRN got a preservation letter from the united states and a preservation request from the FBI.

PRN guy turned over the server to the FBI, says he didn't power it on before turning it over.

On or about 08/24/2015, DATTO told PRN they would stop backing up their cloud and preserve what was in their possession. Informed FBI DATTO has a 60 day purge cycle, therefore DATTO should have data from 60 days prior to 08/24/2015

Did the FBI get the DATTO backups?

---

pg 37 -- Interview of PRN employee, 05/23/2016
FBI present and attorneys at the [redacted]

PRN transmitted a Clinton email archive to CESC and the FBI knew. Did the FBI recover this archive?

Concerned about physical security of equinox servers in Marh 2015.

Mills sent a preservation request to PRN on 03/09/2015? Didn't recall any requests for preservation by anyone else, including government. (Did they at this point?)

Believed the preservation request "applied more to CESC records than email content."

---

pg 39 -- Meeting with Katherine Turner of W&C LLP to turn over laptops, 08/17/2015
FBI, DOJ attorneys, and Mills' council were there.

Turning over the 6 laptopts used to view email from the private server of Clinton. Acknowledged they contained top-secret information.

One laptop was in possession of Mills (Turner lied).

Connected the computers to the internet when they had classified information.

Mills looked at 60,000 emails, deleted half, not sure if she forensically wiped them or not.

---

pg 41 -- Interview of ethics analyst for Office of the Legal Advisor, Financial Disclosure division, 12/10/2015
Present FBI, Trial attorney Public Integrity Section, U.S. DOJ attorneys, DoS attorney advisor.

She was responsible for determining if investments, or outside income sources, created a conflict of interest with DoS.

Weird -- showed her SF-278s and emails from Bryan Pagliano from April 2009 - April 2010.

She emailed Pagliano, didn't give additional info, said info from Pagliano to update SF-278 was likely destroyed.

Denied reviewing incument SF-278 form, "not my handwriting."

Suggesting Pagliano got some extra income? "Income from a PAC or another campaign related organization would not qualify as other government employment."

---

pg 43 -- Interview of DHS HSI special agent, 09/02/2015
FBI present

Also worked on State and Clinton security detail?

Clinton frequently and "blatantly" disregarded security and diplomatic protocols. Rice adhered to them strictly. Clinton protocol breaches were well known and "abundant."

Clinton embarrassed diplomats, travelled with Huma instead? interesting.

Huma possessed "much more power" over Clinton's staff and schedule than other former chiefs of staff.
Huma was her favorite. (Is this why we got the Iran deal? Curious, could Huma be especially sympathetic to Iran?)

Holy shit--against DS advice, risked all of them for a photo op. They felt she was using her position at state to campaign for POTUS (this was early 2009).

She demanded driver to open the window of armored car while they were in dangerous territory.

Things like this were common, recommended interviewing other RSOs for more stories.

She stole furniture from the whitehouse.

Hillary's treatment of DS security on her detail was so contemptuous that many sought re-assignment or employment elsewhere. Went from being an honor to protect her to something only new agents got. She treated the USSS the same.

---

pg 46 -- Interview of someone who used to work for DoD, 02/11/2016
FBI and lawyers from Latham and Watkins present.

Suggesting more lax security practices at DoS meetings? Also said "could not recall" a lot.


about "U.S. strategy in Pakistan" --establishing Clinton talking about drone strikes?


---

pg 48 -- Interview of FBI agent, 10/23/2015
FBI agents present.

Used to work on SoS's security detail.

Why did Clinton use USSS for her home, and DSS for everything else?

pg 49: remembered seeing emails involving clintonfoundation.org

Not sure what the business with RSOs and diplomatic patches is.

talks about Clinton keeping her Blackberry in a SCIF

---

pg 51 -- Interview with DOS employee over his mobile phone.
One FBI agent on the call. 08/26/2015

Before IPS could do their review of the Benghazi FOIA request, the office of the legal advisor (part of DOS?) performed their own, independent review, and used different POCs for their review.

subject did not know why OLA did a review, as that was IPS' purview, why they used different POCs than the regular POCs, what review criteria and/or parameters they used, why they reviewed and produced the 296 emails to the House Committee prior to IPS conducting their formal review.

OLA POCs: DOJ, CIA, DoD, and White House Counsel.

Different CIA contact.

"Did not know why [they] used a POC at the DOJ instead of the FBI and a POC at the WHC instead of the NSC." "Did not want to provide his thoughts on why he thought they used the wrong POCs."

Said it was frustrating, none of the POCs were the same.

---

pg 53 -- Interview of State employee, 08/24/2015

Worked for Grafeld, in charge of working on FOIA for State.

OLA asked subject if there were any Clinton emails in the pstfile that subject had from a previous FOIA request (benghazi?) She did.

IPS was to pick up 14 boxes of emails at Clintons office related to her use of personal email to conduct official State business. Somehow ended up picking up 12 boxes at Williams & Connolly, not sure what happened to the missing 2. The emails weren't organized in any way.

Suggesting they produced the 52,455 pages of hard copies on purpose to slow down IPS.

Burea of Legislative Affairs and OLA conducted the review for the 296 Benghazi emails for the Benghazi committee. IPS had always been in charge of Congressional document production. They produced the material to the House Committee prior and independent to the IPS unit's formal review.

State officials had their own ideas on how to review the 296 emails.

Kennedy made the IPS submit to the OLA before submitting to the House Committee.

"IPS felt immense pressure to complete the review quickly and to not label anything as classified." From who IPS officials were told there was nothing classified in the 296 emails, so they shouldn't use the B(1) exemption.

Was someone risking national security to avoid releasing the knowledge that Hillary sent/received classified information?

Some agencies wanted the emails to be held since they had classified information, someone (from State?) got angry at IPS and pressured them to not classify. Asked "Who at the NEA upgraded it?"

Again, went to DoJ instead of FBI. Also, interesting: would not give a name for who the coordinated reviews with at the CIA.

Sounds like the classified email Kennedy was raising a stink about was one of the 296 Benghazi emails? Meeting in April 2015.

"There was a powerful group of very high-ranking STATE officials that some referred to as "The Shadow Government." This group met every Wednesday afternoon"

There's a quote for the history books.

Shadow Government: Jonathan Finer, John Kerry, Jennifer Stout, Heather Higginbottom, Kennedy, Julia Frifield, [redacted] from OLA, [redacted] from OLA, (others?)

He heard third-hand that the NSA set-up a computer for Clinton and the FBI should talk to S/ES about the specifics. Additionally, the FBI should ask S/ES about Jake Sullivan's email being hacked, as maybe that had something to do with Clinton's emails or why the NSA set-up her computer.

Sounds like this was near beginning of investigation? To get more information and who to interview next.

---

pg 57 -- Interview of PRN employee, 07/31/2015
FBI present, client's counsel

Subject wanted counsel, SA said none necessary, delivered a preservation letter to PRN.

Was wondering when the FBI would contact them about the account. Expressed concern about PRN becoming a target if this matter ever became public. Also gave her a brochure on Counterintelligence security awareness (lol).

---

pg 59 -- Meeting with Turner at W&C LLP to turn over thumb drives of 30K emails, 08/06/15

Turner says thumb drive was obtained from PRN but doesn't say how.

Says there are 6 other laptops, but they had "attorney/client privileged communications" so "are not being turned over to the FBI at this time." Says her firm is in negotiations with the DOJ over the disposition of these laptops.

Is this when the FBI learned of these negotiations?

Interesting that they were negotiating with DOJ separately from the FBI.

--

pg 61 -- Interview of Executive Secretariat at S/ES - IRMC at State, 12/18/2015
Interviewed by FBI SA

IT guy, developed SMART system.

Noted the secretary and his team typically do not use the SBU networked established by the MC team for personal matters. He noted that they are free to use the standard internet service in their own room, as any other hotel guest would.

---

pg 64 -- Interview of presumed CIA officer, 06/10/2016
FBI SA and CIA attorney were present.

Mostly classified by CIA, some expressing concern saying things shouldn't have been sent unclass.

"After reviewing the email, [redacted] exclaimed [redacted] is an idiot." hahahaha
"Further explained he believed the email was 'problematic'"
Expressed his opinion that DoS was not very careful

---

pg 67 -- Interview of presumed CIA officer, 05/17/16
FBI SAs and CIA attorney present.

"Had the email been compromised, the damage would have depended on public speculation regarding the meaning of the email."

"the location of the name, date, and time would be problematic."

Where did they get all these highly-classified emails again? Where these the ones recovered from the "slack space"?

---

pg 70 -- Interview of DOS telecomms guy, 06/21/16
FBI agents present

Some issues with Hillary being demanding about using a blackberry?

Says did not realize Clinton was using the server for DOS business.(as of when?)

---

pg 73 -- Interview of National Security Council employee, 5/16/16
FBI agents and DOJ attorneys present.

Held top secret since 2003, Worked for Special Rep for Afghanistan and Pakistan, then moved to [redacted] at DOS.

Issued class email from INR.

He interacted with the attachments of some email regarding an October 5, 2009 PC meeting, but "did not recall" doing so.

Report was result of a review of Afghanistan and Pakistan policy requested by General McChrystal.

"Recalled having no concerns of classification or mishandling of documents while at the DOS" i.e., covering for Clinton.

---

pg 76 -- Interview of former DoS special assistant, 01/29/16
FBI and subject's attorney present

Interview at a Starbucks in NY
Worked for Jake Sullivan.

"ZFS is a LLC established for the Office of Hillary Rodham Clinton"

Subject worked for the [Clinton Foundation] when it was based in Washington, D.C.

From context, almost certainly Clinton Foundation. Why did the FBI redact this? (cite b6 and b7C) Probably to protect identity of subject?

responsible for arranging phone calls, drafting memos and summarizing news articles.

"No reccolection" of ever receiving laptop from PRN or [redacted]. Spoke with Hanley about this 1 mo ago. Found one email between her and Hanley were they discussed sending the laptop to PRN. Switched to phone and had "no further reccoltion" on what occurred.

Excuses for not receiving laptop being shipped, speculated was shipped to the Clinton Foundation in NYC.

Subject had no knowledge of any archives of Clinton's emails aside from the laptop in question.

So a laptop containing archives of Clinton's emails was sent to the Clinton Foundation?


---

pg 79 -- Interview of state employee working for Inspector General, 08/10/15
FBI agents present.

ICIG quickly determined State needed to make changes to their review process.

Reccomended get more staff from IC FOIA offices, let IC FOIA officers review emails to ensure ClassNet (up to secret only) was appropriate for transferring them, make interagency final arbiter, include DOJ

Kennedy was a "key figure in all this." Did not let IC review for CLassNet appropriatness or DOJ get involved.

Kennedy: "We sent our folks from DS to conduct a security assessment of Williams & Connolly" DS concluded W&C had procedures in place to secure the three thumb drives. Kennedy says "W&C handled Petreaus so they are safe."

---

pg 83 -- Interview of DoS employee, 06/03/16
FBI agents present.

Reports to higherups? worked for C Rice, Powell, and Clinton.

Worked in IT, briefed Clinton's transition team.

Kennedy pushed hiring Pagliano to state?

Pagliano in touch with "7th floor"/"shadow government"

Did he also work for campaign? Foundation? "As a Schedule C hire, Pagliano would have been required to report any additional income he received from side work with Clinton."

---

pg 85 -- Interview of DoS employee, 05/11/16
FBI agents present.

Some notes on production for benghazi committee.

Subject and Kerry were involved.

During production, DoS recognized there was a gap in records related to Clinton and other former sec state emails. McManus asked former secretaries to retroactively fill the gap.

Concerns Clinton was not entirely comprehensive in response to the FOIA.

---

pg 87 -- Interview of Insepctor in IC/IG, 07/23/2015
FBI and [redacted] present.

State FOIA staff were eager to help, sometimes staying past midnight to review emails.

In may 2015, IG/IC began to assist in the State/IG review "Use of Personal Communications Hardware and Software by Five Secretaties of State and Their Immediate Staffs."

IC/IG though the 296 emails didn't comply with FOIA. Public figures were completely redacted from TO, FROM,and CC lines. No STATE FOIA personnel knew how the 296 emails were selected.

The 296 emails were taken from the ~30K emails given to State by Williams and Connolly, Clinton's personal counsel.

DS tried to get the thumb drive from Williams and Conolly, but they said they could not give them over since they recieved preservation letters.

State FOIA officials were suspicious of the special appointments to State Legislative Affairs of attorneys [redacted] and [redacted]. Other State FOIA personnel thought the involvement of [redacted] and [redacted] in the FOIA review process was abnormal. [redacted] and [redacted] made reccomendations and asked for non-routine changes. Both previously worked at [redacted] which appeared to create a conflict of interest. Believed both attorneys also workedat [redacted] and was possibly involved in the Lois Lerner, IRS situation.

On July 1 2015, IC/IG met with P Kennedy and other State reps. Told State that IC/IG would assist State/IG whetherthey welcomed IC/IG's input. Alleged State made several misrepresentations during this meeting. Such as "there were no classified information contained in the thirty thousand e-mails."

---

pg 90 -- Interview of State IG employee, 08/20/15A
FBI agents present.

On April 15, 2015, State IG sent request to State persons asking for personal emails and policy or training given related to use of personal emails for business purposes. Was told there would be no response to the request by attorney of Bryan Pagliano.

Clinton sent out an all-staff cable that personal email should not be used day-to-day for business purposes and that personal email is not secure, so do not use them for business purposes. To best of reccolection, Clinton sent that cable in 2009. After Clinton's time as SoS, there was also State guidance that if State employees had to use their personal email for business purposes they should send a carbon copy to their .gov work email as well.

Kennedy also sent a memo in August 2014 saying not to use personal email for business.

FOIA officials saw behavior that made them uncomfortable, like P Kennedy's attitude toward them and the FOIA process for Clinton. State employees lied to FOIA officials about using personal email (they reviewed emails that showed they used personal)

FOIA for Benghazi emails were handled outside the normal chain of people. Did not know why.

---

pg 93 -- Interview of USSS agent, 05/26/16
FBI agents, FLEOA attorner and another USSS SA present.

Protective detail of Bill. Had IT skills, so also did IT for Clinton Foundation. Assisted CF in a case related to theft of information on the Clinton Foundation information systems.

In Jan 2011, assisted with security of email server at the Clinton residence in Chappaqua, NY.

---

pg 94 -- Interview of DoS employee, 09/17/15
FBI SAs and another DoS employee present.

Trying to find backups of emails?

---

pg 96 -- Summary of call between State OIG called ITS/FE WTFO CART guy, 09/21/15

Writer asked for general information on 50 emails that were found during review of .pst fie for Abedin and Mills. Confirmed FBI had previously received a full copy of the 2 mailboxes on a thumb drive provided by [redacted] from State.

Wait, are these the Williams and Connolly ones? Sounds like they got emails a different way?

Found words "Secret" and "NOFORN" in attachments that were "call sheets" provided to SoS prior to briefings with foreign dignitaries.

---

pg 98 -- Interview of [redacted], 07/23/16
FBI agents and her counsel were present.

"Had no new information regarding the whereabouts of the laptop that was shipped by [redacted] from PRN to the Clinton Foundation in April 2014."

Followup to a Jan 2016 interview (pg 76 likely)

Had a discussion with [redacted] about remotely accessing the Clinton email archive via the internet. Could not recall if she actually accessed the email archive remotely thereafter. May have taken notes about the process during the call and agreed to check her personal records for any relevant information.

What is the "Clinton email archive?" Stored at the Clinton Foundation, accessible over internet? Sounds like the FBI might have these?

---

pg 99 -- Interview with DHS HSI SA, 10/27/15
FBI SA present.

Previously in DS on Clinton's detail.

Forgetful.

Was not familiar with the current whereabouts of [redacted].

Who?


---

Additional notes:

Is the file transferred from PRN to CESC the "email archive?" Possibly, Clinton would want to know what could possibly be recovered and keep it for her own records. If this is true, did the FBI gain access to this archive?

Guessing this backup would include whatever was not removed from the DATTO server.

PRN dodged FBI questions on what was sent, saying they felt the request was for "metadata" on CESC, not emails.
PRN general appearance of secrecy, wanted to keep those working on Clinton's business small (limited to 3).

Repeatedly deny being aware of a March conference call or requests to delete emails, even after being shown an email which may have suggested such a call occurred. (reading between lines.)

FBI interviewed DATTO. Did they get their backups?
A PRN employee turned over a server possibly containing Clinton emails to the FBI.



Who are the "good guy" clients on pg 16?

pg 25 and 28: appears that Kennedy tried quid-pro-quo first, first to bury Benghazi story.

Later, Kennedy targeted a specific FBI agent to attempt quid-pro-quo to change the classification of a Benghazi related email such that it would never be released.

On pg 51, interesting that OLA used DoD instead of FBI as a point of contact. This was Aug 2015, early in the investigation. Could have tipped of FBI that the DOJ was up to no good in this case. Obama interfering in the investigation with his public statements happened around this time as well.

Pg 59, why did Turner inform the FBI they were in negotiations with the DOJ regarding the 5 other laptops? Is this the first time the FBI learned of these negotiations?

pg 98 is a followup on pg 76. Sounds like an archive of Clinton's emails that were accessible was put on a laptop sent to PRN, which was then shipped back to the Clinton Foundation. The archive exists at the Foundation, and was accessible over internet. Someone with knowledge on how to access the archive tipped off the FBI.

pg 93, there was a theft of information from the Clinton Foundation systems.

pg 96, FBI received a "full copy" of a Clinton email .pst archive from [redacted] at State.
