https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2003%20of%2010/view


------
pg 7

some high-level guy, gets president daily breifing, weird ideas about classified info, in contact with FBI Mark Gulianno (why ask about that?)



------
pg 37

another guy who sees "H" as Clinton email and assumes its all approved


------
pg 60

"Secretary Clinton, however, was the first Secretary to use a privately maintained email server"

	...[REDACTED] believed Secretary CLINTON received an operational security briefing that involved the National Security Agency after being sworn in as Secretary of State.


	...[REDACTED] became aware of Secretary CLINTON's Server at the time she was sworn in as Secretary of State. She was offered a State email address, but decided to use the Server from her 2008 presidential campaign.


pg 61

	[REDACTED] was asked to delete approximately two emails related to the public release of Secretary CLINTON's emails. The request was in relation to cleaning unclassified State systems, however, due to an FBI preservation request, [REDACTED] had not deleted any communications. He recalled one of the emails being from an Ambassador and began with a phrase similar to "My classnet is down, so I'll start here..."

------
pg 78

	Agents asked BOSWELL to review a redacted memo titled "Use of Blackberries in Mahogany Row." ...After reviewing the memo, BOSWELL stated the memo was drafted early in the Administration and shortly after CLINTON began her tenure at DoS.


http://freebeacon.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/boswell-bberry-memo.pdf
	We have worked closely [REDACTED] to review all options that would allow Secretary Clinton, you, and a small number of staff to use Blackberries [REDACTED]

	...Our review reaffirms our belief that the vulnerabilities and risks associated with the use of Blackberries in the Mahogany Row [REDACTED] considerably outweigh the convenience their use can add to staff that have access to the unclassified OpenNet system on their desktops.

	...We also worry about the example that using Blackberries in Mahogany row might set as we strive to promote crucial security practices and enforce important security standards among State Department staff.

	...I cannot stress too strongly, however, that any unclassified Blackberry is highly vulnerable in any setting to remotely and covertly monitoring conversations, retrieving e-mails, and exploiting calendars. I am attaching reports from DS's Office of Computer Security's Cyber Threat & Analysis Division that give further background on those risks.

	...Attachments: ..."Your Cell and Your Berry: Tools for the Enemy"

------
pg 114


"Clintonista" talking about classified talking points

says its hard to make unclassified versions of talking points (is that even a thing?)(can you do it in 8 minutes?)


------
pg 117

	[REDACTED] sent a weekly report directly to the Secretary of State when it was widely known "you don't go direct" with the secretary.


pg 120

guy sent a SECRET/NOFORN email, then I guess sent the same unclass? not sure


------
pg 123


talking about "talking points"


interviewee stated thought most Clinton emails were upclassed, but after viewing the FBI's email understood why people were concerned about this matter


------
pg 128


talking abtou Clinton Benghazi discussions


------
pg 148

on how Samuelson did the sorting process for the emails


FBI asks her how Abedin emails were missed, suggested Clinton may have deleted them


------
pg 179

Interview with Mike Morell, seems ot be covering for Clinton ("understand would be classified but doesn't reveal sources/methods")

FBI asks him about contacts, meetings with Clinton and team, "do not recall"


------
pg 185

Bentel denies hushing up people asking about Clinton's private email


------
pg 187


Interview with Powell

interesting... Powell didn't get why phones weren't allowed in SCIFs

"advised HILLARY CLINTON, when she became Secretary of State, to resist restrictions that would inhibit her ability to communicate."

Did Powell want the email scandal to happen?

Want to use her as a mole?
