http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/5-reasons-the-comey-hearing-was-the-worst-education_us_577ee999e4b05b4c02fbdcd5


This guy a propagandist? trying to tie-in treatment of Hillary with double-standard for poor vs. rich 

------

https://blog.simplejustice.us/2017/05/17/the-comey-obstruction-memo-and-trumps-mens-rea/


at least one law blog (so far) still angry at Comey, this time for the Trump thing


------

http://www.hypocritae.com/National/democrats-introduce-emmens-reaem-reform/

lol


------


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	I’m happy to go through the classifications in particular. In our system of law, there’s a thing called mens rea. It’s important to know what you did and when you did it. This Latin phrase “mens rea” means, “What were you thinking?”

	We don’t want to put people in jail unless we prove that they knew they were doing something they shouldn’t do. 


like in a general sense? or w.r.t some harmful effect?

	That is the characteristic of all the prosecutions involving mishandling of classified information. There was a statute passed in 1917 that on its face makes it a crime, a felony for someone to engage in gross negligence. So that would appear to say, well, maybe in that circumstance you don’t need to prove they were doing something unlawful, maybe it’s enough to prove they were really, really careless beyond a reasonable doubt. At the time Congress passed that statute in 1917, there was a lot of concern in the House and Senate about whether that was going to violate the American tradition of requiring that before you go and lock somebody up, you proved they knew they were doing something wrong. So there was a lot of concern about it.


obviously false, negligance can be criminal

	The statute was passed. As best I can tell, the Department of Justice has used it once in the 99 years since reflecting that same concern. I know from 30 years with the Department of Justice, they have grave concerns about whether it’s appropriate to prosecute somebody for gross negligence, which is why they’ve done it once that I know of in a case involving espionage.


Comey knows only used once


	When I look at the facts we gather here, as I said, I see evidence of great carelessness, but I do not see evidence that is sufficient to establish that Secretary Clinton or those with whom she was corresponding, both talked about classified information on e-mail and knew when they did it, they were doing something that was against the law. 


well she was an OCA?

also she lied about classified info on her server

which is evidence

plus a whole lot of lies showing she knew what she did was wrong, at least in a general sense


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idiot_defense

This what CLinton was trying?

says its almost never successful


------


http://www.legalmatch.com/law-library/article/what-is-admissible-evidence.html

overview of what's admissible/what's not in general


irrc admissibility rules sound complicated and dumb

would Clinton's testimony under oath be admissible? in U.S. courts I'm not even sure...



-----


http://www.cracked.com/article_17470_the-7-most-baffling-criminal-defenses-that-sort-worked.html


Was Clinton sleepwalking when she sent classified info on her private email server?


------


https://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/2016/11/01/clinton-mails-and-test-intent/PREmFjWAqwtl4amw2nZNvJ/story.html
	By Scot Lehigh


This guy says needed mens rea for Clinton

	Once again, note the importance of intent here.

	When grilled by House Republicans about why he hadn’t recommended prosecution based on gross negligence, Comey noted that the Justice Department had brought precisely one such case in the past century. (That count was dropped when the defendant pled to a different charge.)

	That matters. As a prosecutor, “you have to pay attention to what the pattern of enforcement has been in the past,” notes Stern, who adds that the courts look skeptically when prosecutors attempt to apply statutes selectively or in unusual ways. What the purblind partisans arguing for gross negligence prosecution are essentially saying, then, is this: Prosecutorial precedent and pattern be damned, Comey should have contorted the criminal justice system to go after Clinton. 


??? but how is there "precedent" if it's only be prosecuted once for a completely different situation?


also by him:


https://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/2017/06/08/comey-leaves-trump-tatters/csouczEpNf5LOVYEh0cqWN/story.html
	Comey leaves Trump in tatters


https://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/2017/06/13/trump-comey-who-telling-truth/DkKHJDGUANKLSyZG2qMABL/story.html
	Actually, however, there’s a logical way to arrive at a supposition about who is more likely to be telling the truth. Consider: Comey spoke under oath, which is to say, under the pain and penalty of perjury. If proved to have perjured himself, he could go to prison for up to five years. 


But Comey was speaking to his opinion...


this guy is full of shit



http://abovethelaw.com/2016/10/hey-liberals-stop-attacking-james-comey-because-it-just-makes-you-look-stupid/
	Hey Liberals: Stop Attacking James Comey Because It Just Makes You Look Stupid
	The Democrats need to stop acting like clowns. 

what a fucking useless blog

have the got everything? is everything politicized now?


I swear to god we should have a civil war just so they kill each other off


------


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	GOWDY: Well in the interest of time, and because I have a plane to catch tomorrow afternoon, I’m not going to go through anymore of the false statements. But I am going to ask you to put on your old hat. False exculpatory statements, they are used for what?

	COMEY: Either for the — a substantive prosecution or for evidence of intent in a criminal prosecution.

	GOWDY: Exactly. Intent and consciousness of guilt, right? Is that right?

	COMEY: Right



-------


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	LUMMIS: Your know thought Mr. — may I interrupt and suggest that, this statute says, “knowingly removes such documents or materials without authority and with the attempt to retain such documents or materials at an unauthorized location.” The intent here in the statute is to retain the documents at an unauthorized location. It’s not intent to pass them on to a terrorist or to someone out in Internet land, it’s just the intent to retain the documents or materials at an unauthorized location.

	COMEY: It’s more than that, though.

	You would have to show that and prove criminal intent both by law, that’s the way the judgment would instruct the jury, and practice by the Department of Justice. They have reserved that statute, even though it’s just a misdemeanor, for people who clearly knew they were breaking the law, and that’s the challenge.

	So should have known, must have know, had to know — does not get you there. You have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that they knew they were engaged in something that was unlawful. That’s the challenge.


wtf?

I mean pretty clearly can make a case she know what she was doing was wrong


but "knew what she was doing was unlawful?"


------

http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	BUCK: And there is no doubt about those two elements. Now I don’t know whether the next element is one element or two, but it talks about knowingly removed such materials without authority and with the intent to retain such material at an unauthorized location.

	So I’m going to treat those as two separate parts of the intent element. First of all, do you see the word “willfully” anywhere in this statute?

	COMEY: I don’t.

	BUCK: And that would indicate to you that there is a lower threshold for intent?

	COMEY: No, it wouldn’t.

	BUCK: Why?

	COMEY: Because we often — as I understand, the Justice Department’s practice and judicial practice will impute to any criminal statute at that level with a knowingly also requirement that you know that you’re involved in criminal activity of some sort. A general mens rea requirement.


here Comey is more specific--contradicting himself?

clearly knew she was doing something wrong

is that "general mens rea"?

can make a case she is misleading the FBI?


clearly knew about classification markings

could show she knew she was in legal trouble?

too bad I'm not a lawyer...


why do I have to fucking do everything...


maybe I should hire a lawyer lol


	BUCK: And she knew that she was receiving materials, classified information, in — in the e-mails that she received on — on her BlackBerry and other devices.

	COMEY: I can’t answer — I’m hesitating as a prosecutor because it’s always — to what level of proof. I do not believe there’s evidence beyond a reasonable doubt that she knew she was receiving classified information in violation of the requirements.


I guess the "reasonable doubt" is that she was an idiot with classification


------


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	COMEY: She did in fact  — there is, in my view, not evidence beyond certainly probable cause. There’s not evidence beyond a reasonable doubt that she knew she was receiving classified information or that she intended to retain it on her server.


Ok, contradicting himself... now he says Clinton had to know she was receiving classified information and intended to keep it on her server


	There’s evidence of that but when I said there’s not clear evidence of intent, that’s what I meant. I could not, even if the Department Of Justice would bring that case, I could not prove beyond a reasonable doubt those two elements.


so that contradicts what he said earlier... and is not what's in the law


is there evidence she knew she had classified information? not like I can see it...


but if she revealed sources and methods, and she said sources and methods have to be protected, then there's a case she knew

and can show she knew what she was doing was wrong in a general sense



------


http://articles.latimes.com/2005/mar/16/opinion/ed-ebbers16
	Early returns suggest that jurors aren't buying it. On Tuesday, a New York jury determined that Ebbers was guilty of all nine criminal counts of securities fraud, conspiracy and lying to regulators in orchestrating the largest accounting fraud in U.S. corporate history. Ebbers had made a bold bid to clear his name by taking the witness stand. The strategy backfired as jurors refused to believe that a savvy executive who built a huge, complicated telecommunications company was so detached that a massive scam occurred without his knowledge.


And well you know its similarly hard to believe a U.S. SoS didn't know the North Korean Nuclear program wasn't classified...


plus there's evidence to show she doesn't care about classification rules


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mens_rea


	Thus, the actus reus and mens rea of homicide in a modern criminal statute can be considered as follows:

	actus reus: any conduct resulting in the death of another individual;
	mens rea: intent or knowledge that the conduct would result in the death.


Ok, that's different from knowing in a "general sense" she did something wrong


but Comey is ambiguous on what his magical intent requirement is


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mens_rea

    Strict liability: the actor engaged in conduct and his mental state is irrelevant. Under Model Penal Code Section 2.05, this mens rea may only be applied where the forbidden conduct is a mere violation, i.e. a civil infraction.
    Negligently: a "reasonable person" would be aware of a "substantial and unjustifiable risk" that his conduct is of a prohibited nature, will lead to a prohibited result, and/or is under prohibited attendant circumstances, and the actor was not so aware but should have been.
    Recklessly: the actor consciously disregards a "substantial and unjustifiable risk" that his conduct is of a prohibited nature, will lead to a prohibited result, and/or is of a prohibited nature.
    Knowingly: the actor is practically certain that his conduct will lead to the result, or is aware to a high probability that his conduct is of a prohibited nature, or is aware to a high probability that the attendant circumstances exist.
    Purposefully: the actor has the "conscious object" of engaging in conduct and believes or hopes that the attendant circumstances exist.


------

https://definitions.uslegal.com/c/consciousness-of-guilt/
	Evidentiary rules allow a prosecutor to introduce testimony that tends to show that the defendants actions prove he knew he was guilty (at least of something). 

"at least of something"?

well sure you can show that


talking about Trump:

http://www.newsweek.com/obstruction-justice-comey-impeachment-622400
	“As a former prosecutor, the fact that he clears the room before he has his discussion with Comey—that to me is highly significant,” Zeidenberg says. “When you say to the vice president, ‘Get out,’ to the attorney general, ‘Get out,’ and ‘I want to have a one-on-one here’—that suggests consciousness of guilt.”


https://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2016/07/16/comey_failed_to_act_in_the_public_interest_131205.html
	Prosecutors use false exculpatory statements as evidence of intent and consciousness of guilt. Combined with her explicit rejection of a government email address, a failure to turn over her emails until, two years out of office, she was compelled by Congress to do so, and the State Department’s finding that it “did not—and would not—approve her exclusive reliance on a personal email account to conduct Department business” because of official restrictions and “security risks,” a reasonable prosecutor, Gowdy maintained, could have found substantial evidence of intent.

	But absent a showing of intent, a reasonable prosecutor still would have a respectable case against Clinton, because under the relevant law, intent is not a necessary element of criminal mishandling of classified information.


Yeah this sounds right... common sense, right?

then he goes and cites a bunch of Russian propagandists


http://scholarship.law.duke.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1671&context=lcp

is this like some law philsophy shit oh god its 34 pages


http://law.indiana.edu/instruction/tanford/b723/04relev/T04.pdf
The most basic rule of evidence is that it must be relevant to the case. I
rrelevant evidence
should be ex
cluded. I
f we are try
ing
a bank robbery
 case, the witnesses should talk about the
robbery
 and not whether the banks are in a conspiracy
 to make obscene profits on hig
h
-
risk
mortg
ag
es and are pay
ing
 off Hillary
 Clinton. 


lol I didn't even search for "Hillary Clinton"
