http://www.nytimes.com/1992/03/08/us/1992-campaign-personal-finances-clintons-joined-s-l-operator-ozark-real-estate.html

	1992

kicked it off?


http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/politics/special/whitewater/committee.pdf

a 690 page Congressional report...

"disrupt the work of their government by any means" amirite?


http://www.nytimes.com/1996/06/05/us/hillary-clinton-s-fingerprints-among-those-found-on-papers.html
	Hillary Clinton's Fingerprints Among Those Found on Papers

	By NEIL A. LEWIS JUNE 5, 1996

	Republicans on the special Senate Whitewater committee released a report from the Federal Bureau of Investigation today showing that the fingerprints of the First Lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton, were found on records discovered in the White House family quarters two years after they were first sought by investigators.

	The F.B.I. report also found that the documents, copies of billing records from Mrs. Clinton's work as a lawyer in Arkansas, revealed fingerprints of five others. They were Vincent W. Foster Jr., the deputy White House counsel who committed suicide in July 1993; a personal assistant to the Clintons who had also worked at Mrs. Clinton's law firm; an aide to the Clintons' current lawyer, and two other law firm aides.


just almost caught but not quite?


http://www.nytimes.com/1996/07/27/us/fbi-move-disturbs-whitewater-counsel-s-office.html

	Lawyers in the office of Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel, have expressed concern that the Federal Bureau of Investigation might have meddled in their investigation of how the White House improperly obtained hundreds of confidential files, law-enforcement officials said today.

weird


http://thebernreport.com/comey-long-history-letting-clintons-off-hook/


apparent Russian propaganda saying Comey let Clinton off the hook in Whitewater


http://www.nytimes.com/2002/06/21/us/prosecutors-clear-clintons-in-clemency-of-4-hasidic-men.html
	Federal prosecutors said yesterday that no criminal wrongdoing was committed when President Bill Clinton commuted the sentences of four swindlers from a Hasidic enclave in New York State that voted overwhelmingly for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.

	James B. Comey, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said in a two-sentence statement that he had closed his investigation of clemency granted to the four men from New Square, N.Y.

	Mr. Comey said he would continue the investigation into the more than 170 other pardons and clemencies Mr. Clinton granted on his last day of office, including the one that has drawn the most ire: a pardon for the financier Marc Rich, a commodities trader who fled the country in 1983.

	The New Square case also drew attention because of its mix of the Clintons, New York ethnic politics and suggestions of vote-trading.
Continue reading the main story

	The four men, convicted of bilking the state and federal government of tens of millions of dollars, were prominent members of New Square, a reclusive Rockland County village. The village leaders' aggressive courting of the president and Mrs. Clinton before and after the 2000 Senate election raised questions of whether the men's sentences were reduced in exchange for votes.

	''The investigation was closed because we thoroughly investigated and determined it wasn't appropriate to bring charges against anybody in the case,'' Mr. Comey said at a news conference on an unrelated case. ''I can't really go into it because it was an investigation that didn't result in charges. That may be a frustrating answer, but that's the one I'm compelled to give.''


https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/politics/2002/06/21/clinton-cleared-in-new-square-pardon-case/5a4d8f1d-4f69-494f-904c-0e6c2b689baa/
	Clinton Cleared in New Square Pardon Case
	By Dale Russakoff June 21, 2002

	The Justice Department yesterday declined to file charges in one of the more unusual cases of pardons and commutations issued by President Bill Clinton in his final days in office: allegations that the former president granted clemency to four Hasidic Jews after their tiny New York state community voted almost unanimously for Hillary Rodham Clinton in the 2000 senatorial race.

	After months of silence on the matter, United States Attorney James B. Comey in Manhattan, who is overseeing investigations of 176 pardons and commutations granted in the final days of Clinton's presidency, said probes of the other cases would continue.

	But no charges will be filed in the clemency case of four residents of New Square, N.Y., an orthodox Jewish enclave about 30 miles north of Manhattan. Unlike most of the commutations and pardons under scrutiny, the New Square case involved no allegations of legal favors being traded for money -- only for votes.

	...Comey declined to elaborate on other cases, but among the most publicized pardons was the one Clinton gave to fugitive commodities trader Marc Rich. Rich's ex-wife, Denise, was a major donor to the Democratic National Committee, Hillary Clinton's campaign and the Clinton library foundation.




http://www.cnn.com/2016/07/07/politics/who-is-james-comey-fbi-director-things-to-know/index.html
	He'd investigated the Clintons previously

	In fact, the email server probe marked the third time Comey has investigated Bill or Hillary Clinton.

	Their first run-in came in the mid-1990s, when Comey joined the Senate Whitewater Committee as a deputy special counsel. There he dug into allegations that the Clintons took part in a fraud connected to a Arkansas real estate venture gone bust. No charges were ever brought against either Clinton, but the scandal would eventually lead to independent counsel Kenneth Starr's probe that would result in the Lewinsky scandal.

	In 2002, Comey, then a federal prosecutor, took over an investigation into President Bill Clinton's 2001 pardon of financier Marc Rich, who had been indicted on a laundry list of charges before fleeing the country. The decision set off a political firestorm focused on accusations that Rich's ex-wife Denise made donations to the Democratic Party, the Clinton Library and Hillary Clinton's 2000 Senate campaign as part of a plan to get Rich off the hook. Comey ultimately decided not to pursue the case. 
