http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	What was your impression, and what did you mean by this notion of a patronage relationship?

	COMEY: Well, my impression, and again it's my impression, I could always be wrong but my common sense told me what was going on is, either he had concluded or someone had told him that you didn't, you've already asked Comey to stay, and you didn't get anything for it.


Comey had the "impression," "could always be wrong" that Trump wanted something in return for Comey staying on the job?


	And that the dinner was an effort to build a relationship, in fact, he asked specifically, of loyalty in the context of asking me to stay. As I said, what was odd about that is we'd already talked twice about it by that point and he said I very much hope you'll stay. In fact, I just remembered sitting a third, when you've seen the. IC tour of me walking across the blue room, and what the president whispered in my ear was "I really look forward to working with you." So after those encounters -- 


"asked specifically of loyalty in the context of asking me to stay." And Comey goes on to say Trump might have had the intent there to influence Comey, make his job tied to doing what "the boss wants."


Trump also "thinking about firing" Comey (in his own words) for a long time

problem is intent could easily be something else, maybey Trump thinks Comey is "loyal" to Clinton/the "deep state" and was thinking of firing him for that.



http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	Now, you told senator Warner that the president was looking to, quote, get something. Looking back, did that dinner suggest that your job might be contingent on how you handled the investigation?

	COMEY: I don't know that I'd go that far. I got the sense my job would be contingent upon how he felt I -- excuse me -- how he felt I conducted myself and whether I demonstrated loyalty. But I don't know whether I'd go so far as to connect it to the investigation. 


So Comey felt pressure, wouldn't connect to investigation


	WYDEN: He said the president was trying to create some sort of patronage. Behaving in a manner consistent with the wishes of the boss?

	COMEY: Yes. At least consider how what you're doing will affect the boss as a significant consideration. 

------

	WARNER: That was a few days before your firing.

	COMEY: On the Sunday after the inauguration. The next Friday I have dinner and the president begins by wanting to talk about my job and so I'm sitting there thinking wait a minute three times we've already, you've already asked me to stay or talked about me staying. My common sense, again I could be wrong but my common sense told me what's going on here is, he's looking to get something in exchange for granting my request to stay in the job. 


Trump keeps asking Comey to stay, Comey sounds like he's way out there in speculating/assigning motive


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	COMEY: ...But then the explanations, the shifting explanations, confused me and increasingly concerned me. They confused me because the president and I had had multiple conversations about my job, both before and after he took office, and he had repeatedly told me I was doing a great job, and he hoped I would stay. And I had repeatedly assured him that I did intend to stay and serve out the years of my term. He told me repeatedly that he had talked to lots of people about me, including our current Attorney General, and had learned that I was doing a great job, and that I was extremely well-liked by the FBI workforce.


Comey makes it sound like Trump did want Comey to stay, or was afraid of him


------



RUBIO: What it comes down to is the president asked three things of you. Asked for your loyalty. You said you'd be loyally honest.

	COMEY: Honestly loyal.

	RUBIO: Honestly loyal. He asked you on one occasion to let the Mike Flynn thing go because he was a good guy. By the way, you're aware he said the same thing in the press the next day. He is a good guy, treated unfairly, etc. I imagine your FBI agents read that.

	COMEY: I'm sure they did.

	RUBIO: The president's wishes were known to them, certainly by the next day when he had a press conference with the prime minister. Going back, the three requests were, number one, be loyal. Number two, let the Mike Flynn thing go. He is a good guy, been treated unfairly. Number three, can you please tell the American people what these leaders in congress already know, which you already know and what you told me three times, that I'm not under personally under investigation.

	COMEY: That's right. 


------
