http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	FEINSTEIN: You describe two phone calls that you received from president trump. One on March 30th and one on April 11. He, quote, described the Russia investigation as a cloud that was impairing his ability, end quote, as president, and asked you, quote, to lift the cloud, end quote. How did you interpret that? What did you believe he wanted you to do?

	COMEY: I interpreted that as he was frustrated that the Russia investigation was taking up so much time and energy. I think he meant of the executive branch, but in the public square in general. It was making it difficult for him to focus on other priorities of his. But what he asked me was actually narrowing than that. I think what he meant by the cloud -- and, again, I could be wrong -- but the entire investigation is taking up oxygen and making it hard for me to focus on what I want to focus on. The ask was to get it out that I, the president, am not personally under investigation.


Comey still "interpreting" and unsure about what Trump meant by "the cloud"


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	RUBIO: On the cloud, we keep talking about this cloud, you perceive the cloud to be the Russian investigation in general?

	COMEY: Yes, sir. 


But Comey "percieves" it as the Russian investigation in general


------

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	RUBIO: On March 30th during the phone call about general Flynn, you said he abruptly shifted and brought up something that you call, quote, unquote, the Mccabe thing. Specifically, the Mccabe thing as you understood it was that Mccabe's wife had received campaign money from what I assume means Terry McAuliffe?

	COMEY: Yes. 

	RUBIO: Close to the Clintons. Did he say, I don't like this guy because he got money from someone close to Clinton?

	COMEY: He asked me about McCabe and said, how is he going to be with me as president? I was rough on him on the campaign trail.

	RUBIO: Rough on Mccabe?

	COMEY: By his own account, he said he was rough on Mccabe and Mrs. Mccabe on the campaign trail. How is he going to be? I shared with the president, Andy is a pro. No issue at all. You have to know people of the FBI. They're not -- 


Comey adding to the case that Trump's intent based on fear of FBI?


http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/07/politics/james-comey-memos-testimony/index.html
	The President went on to say that if there were some "satellite" associates of his who did something wrong, it would be good to find that out, but that he hadn't done anything wrong and hoped I would find a way to get it out that we weren't investigating him.

	In an abrupt shift, he turned the conversation to FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, saying he hadn't brought up "the McCabe thing" because I had said McCabe was honorable, although McAuliffe was close to the Clintons and had given him (I think he meant Deputy Director McCabe's wife) campaign money. Although I didn't understand why the President was bringing this up, I repeated that Mr. McCabe was an honorable person.


like "see I'm being nice to you"


Rubio brings up, did Trump except something in return?


Problem is it could be construed as Trump trying to "mend ties" after ragging on the FBI on the campaign trail

seems like a story that fits facts better?

A lot of "I hope you're not mad at me" kindof talk? "I hope you can let this go," "happy if you stay," "I was rough on McCabe"

Trump also hugging COmey (and COmey "disgusted" lol)


reportedly, Trump also suspected intelligence community of being out to get him


------

COMEY: Yes, sir. He went farther than that. He said, and if some of my satellites did something wrong, it'd be good to find that out.

	RUBIO: That is the second part. The satellites, if one of my satellites, I imagine he meant some of the people surrounding his campaign, did something wrong, it'd be great to know that, as well.

	COMEY: Yes, sir. That's what he said.

	RUBIO: Are those the only two instances in which that back and forth happened, where the president was basically saying, and I'm paraphrasing here, it's okay. Do the Russia investigation. I hope it all comes out. I have nothing to do with anything Russia. It'd be great if it all came out, people around me were doing things that were wrong?

	COMEY: Yes. As I recorded it accurately there. That was the sentiment he was expressing. Yes, sir. 


Comey sounds more sure here, Trump saying "do the Russia investigation let it all come out" as if Trump is confident of his innocence


------

KING: With regard to the -- several of these conversations, in his interview with Lester holt on NBC, the president said, I had dinner with him. He wanted to have dinner because he wanted to stay on. Is this an accurate statement?

	COMEY: No, sir. 

	...


	KING: Did you in any way initiate that dinner?

	COMEY: No. He called me at my desk at lunchtime and asked me, was I free for dinner that night. Called himself. Said, can you come over for dinner tonight? I said, yes, sir. He said, will 6:00 work? I think 6:00 first. Then he said, I was going to invite your whole family but we'll do it next time. Is that a good time? I said, sir, whatever works for you. He said, how about 6:30? I said, whatever works for you, sir. Then I hung up and had to call my wife and break a date with her. I was supposed to take her to dinner that night. 


establishing Trump as a liar? or, trying to?


https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/11/president_trumps_full_interview_with_lester_holt.html

	TRUMP: ...very early on. That dinner was arranged. I think he asked for the dinner.

	And he wanted to stay on as the FBI head. And I said I'll, you know, consider. We'll see what happens.


yet still boils down to "he said, he said" (and Trump sounds unsure anyway)


------


