http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	BURR: Director, when the president requested that you, and I quote "Let Flynn go," General Flynn had an unreported contact with the Russians, which is an offense, and if press accounts are right, there might have been discrepancies between facts and his FBI testimony. In your estimation, was general Flynn at that time in serious legal jeopardy, and in addition to that, do you sense that the president was trying to obstruct justice or just seek for a way for Mike Flynn to save face, given that he had already been fired?

	COMEY: General Flynn at that point in time was in legal jeopardy. There was an open FBI criminal investigation of his statements in connection with the Russian contacts, and the contacts themselves, and so that was my assessment at the time. I don't think it's for me to say whether the conversation I had with the president was an effort to obstruct. I took it as a very disturbing thing, very concerning, but that's a conclusion I'm sure the special counsel will work towards to try and understand what the intention was there, and whether that's an offense. 


So Flynn in legal jeopardy, Trump at least should know, says "I hope you can let this go."


------


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	FEINSTEIN: Let's go to the Flynn issue. The senator outlined, “I hope you could see your way to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go.” But you also said in your written remarks, and I quote, that you “had understood the president to be requesting that we drop any investigation of Flynn in connection with false statements about his conversations with the Russian ambassador in December,”. Please go into that with more detail.

	COMEY: Well, the context and the president's word are what led me to that conclusion. As I said in my statement, I could be wrong, but Flynn had been forced to resign the day before. And the controversy around general Flynn at that point in time was centered on whether he lied to the vice president about his nature of conversations with the Russians, whether he had been candid with others in the course of that. So that happens on the day before. On the 1, the president makes reference to that. I understood what he wanted me to do was drop any investigation connected to Flynn's account of his conversations with the Russians. 


Comey still sounds unsure. The context he describes could also mean Trump wanted Comey to let the "Flynn lied to the vice President" thing go.


------

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	SEN. MARCO RUBIO: Director Comey, the meeting in the oval office where he made the request about Mike Flynn, was that only time he asked you to hopefully let it go?

	COMEY: Yes.

	RUBIO: And in that meeting, as you understood it, he was asking not about the general Russia investigation, he was asking specifically about the jeopardy that Flynn was in himself?

	COMEY: That's how I understood it. Yes, sir.

	RUBIO: As you perceived it, while he hoped you did away with it, you perceived it as an order, given the setting, the position and some of the circumstances?

	COMEY: Yes. 


Comey "understood it" and "perceived it" for "I hope you can let this go" as an order

------

RUBIO: What it comes down to is the president asked three things of you. Asked for your loyalty. You said you'd be loyally honest.

	COMEY: Honestly loyal.

	RUBIO: Honestly loyal. He asked you on one occasion to let the Mike Flynn thing go because he was a good guy. By the way, you're aware he said the same thing in the press the next day. He is a good guy, treated unfairly, etc. I imagine your FBI agents read that.

	COMEY: I'm sure they did.

	RUBIO: The president's wishes were known to them, certainly by the next day when he had a press conference with the prime minister. Going back, the three requests were, number one, be loyal. Number two, let the Mike Flynn thing go. He is a good guy, been treated unfairly. Number three, can you please tell the American people what these leaders in congress already know, which you already know and what you told me three times, that I'm not under personally under investigation.

	COMEY: That's right. 


------

Comey testifies Trump was making a "request" to let the Flynn thing go.


(Is "Flynn is a good guy" a false exculpatory statement?)


	WYDEN: Your testimony was that the president's request about Flynn could infect investigation. Had the president got what he wanted and what he asked of you, what would have been the effect on the investigation?

	COMEY: We would have closed any investigation of general Flynn in connection with his statements and encounters -- statements about encounters with Russians in the late part of December. We would have dropped an open criminal investigation. 


So Comey  testifies that Trump's intent was for Flynn investigation to be dropped

------

COLLINS: I'd like to now turn to the conversations with the president about Michael Flynn, which had been discussed at great length.

First, let me make very clear that the president never should have cleared the room and he never should have asked you, as you reported, to let it go, to let the investigation go. But I remain puzzled by your response. Michael Flynn is a good guy. You could have said, Mr. President, this meeting is inappropriate. This response could compromise the investigation. You should not be making such a request. It's fundamental to the operation of our government, the FBI be insulated from this kind of political pressure. You talked a bit today about that you were stunned by the president making the request. But my question to you is later on, upon reflection, did you go to anyone at the department of justice and ask them to call the white house counsel's office and explain that the president had to have a far better understanding and appreciation of his role vis-à-vis the FBI?

COMEY: In general, I did. I spoke to the attorney general and spoke to the new deputy attorney general, Mr. Rosenstein, when he took office and explained my serious concern about the way in which the president is interacting, especially with the FBI. As I said in my testimony, I told the attorney general, it can't happen that you get kicked out of the room and the president talks to me. Why didn't we raise the specific? It was of investigative interest to figure out, what just happened with the president's request? I wouldn't want to alert the white house it had happened until we figured out what we were going to do with it investigatively.

COLLINS: Your testimony was that you went to attorney general sessions and said, don't ever leave me alone with him again. Are you saying that you also told him that he had made a request that you let it go with regard to part of the investigation of Michael Flynn?

COMEY: No. I specifically did not. I did not. 

------

	HEINRICH: Fair enough. Told the reporter he never did that. You've testified that the president asked for your loyalty in that dinner. White house denies that. A lot of this comes down to who should we believe. Do you want to say anything as to why we should believe you?

	COMEY: My mother raised me not to say things like this about myself so I'm not going to. I think people should look at the whole body of my testimony. As I used to say to juries, when I talked about a witness, you can't cherry pick it. You can't say, I like these things he said but on this, he's a ten liar. You have to take it together. I've tried to be open, fair, transparent and accurate. Of significant fact to me is so why did he kick everybody out of the Oval Office? Why would you kick the attorney general, the president, the chief of staff out to talk to me if it was about something else? So that, to me, as an investigator, is a significant fact. 


significant to Comey that that Trump kicked everyone out of the room before the Flynn thing.

Comey would have witnesses for that, for one (seems to be implying this in context of answer)


leaves questions like why kick out attorney general? I guess?

but I guess Comey is saying this is evidence of intent

Comey seems to think of himself as an investigator of Trump


	BLUNT: Six weeks later were still telling the president on March the 30th that he was not personally the target of any investigation?

	COMEY: Correct. On March the 30th, and I think again on April 11th, as well, I told him we're not investigating him personally. That was true. 


although he wasn't the target of any investigation

an "unnofficial investigation" then?


------

KING: In his press conference May 18th, the president responded, quote, no, no, when asked about asking you to stop the investigation into general Flynn. Is that a true statement?

COMEY: I don't believe it is. 


so Comey disagrees with Trump directly, says he did ask him to stop the investigation into Flynn

pretty definitive?


------

	BLUNT: On the Flynn issue specifically, I believe you said earlier that you believe the president was suggesting you drop any investigation of Flynn's account of his conversation with the Russian ambassador. Which was essentially misleading the vice president and others?

	COMEY: Correct. I'm not going to go into the details but whether there were false statements made to government investigators, as well. 


so Flynn lied to FBI


http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2017/01/officials-nothing-sketchy-going-on-with-flynns-russia-call.html
	FBI Says There’s Nothing Improper in Michael Flynn’s Chat With Russian Ambassador

yet this is how it gets reported

well not on interview though

https://lawfareblog.com/what-do-we-know-about-investigations-trump-associates-ties-russia
	On Sunday night, the Wall Street Journal broke a story that U.S. counterintelligence officials “had investigated” the communications of National Security Advisor Michael Flynn as part of a counterintelligence inquiry. This set off a storm of contradicting reports, with the Washington Post asserting that Flynn had been cleared and was not part of the broader investigation into Trump associates’ ties to Russia, and then still other outlets reporting that in fact the investigation was still ongoing.

oh

hmmm


https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/right-turn/wp/2017/01/23/flynn-is-in-quite-a-fix/?utm_term=.79dfc81cce29
	It isn’t clear when the counterintelligence inquiry began, whether it produced any incriminating evidence or if it is continuing. Mr. Flynn, a retired general who became national security adviser with Mr. Trump’s inauguration, plays a key role in setting U.S. policy toward Russia.


so this says not clear of any incriminating evidence

why wouldn't they leak that Flynn lied to the FBI? wtf?

I don't even think that's classified?


Hennessy cites this saying Flynn found cleared:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/us-counterintelligence-officials-are-examining-possible-ties-between-russia-and-trump-associates/2017/01/19/7e10f31c-debd-11e6-918c-99ede3c8cafa_story.html

Doesn't even mention Flynn


https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/fbi-reviewed-flynn%E2%80%99s-calls-with-russian-ambassador-but-found-nothing-illicit/ar-AAm9RO0
	by Ellen Nakashima, Greg Miller

	Although Flynn’s contacts with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak were listened to, Flynn himself is not the active target of an investigation, U.S. officials said. The Wall Street Journal reported Sunday that U.S. counterintelligence agents had investigated the communications between Flynn and Kislyak.


they reported that it "isn't clear if its continuing"


then later


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/flynn-in-fbi-interview-denied-discussing-sanctions-with-russian-ambassador/2017/02/16/e3e1e16a-f3d5-11e6-8d72-263470bf0401_story.html
	 By Sari Horwitz and Adam Entous February 16

	Former national security adviser Michael Flynn denied to FBI agents in an interview last month that he had discussed U.S. sanctions against Russia with that country’s ambassador to the United States before President Trump took office, contradicting the contents of intercepted communications collected by intelligence agencies, current and former U.S. officials said.

	The Jan. 24 interview potentially puts Flynn in legal jeopardy. Lying to the FBI is a felony offense. But several officials said it is unclear whether prosecutors would attempt to bring a case, in part because Flynn may parse the definition of the word “sanctions.” He also followed his denial to the FBI by saying he couldn’t recall all of the conversation, officials said.


released after Trump yelling at intel community, supposedly threatening to purge

so makes it look like they kept this as blackmail of Trump, instead of release right away which would make it clear he's guilty of obstruction of justice (although on the other hand that would probably have stopped him cold, which could explain why no leak)


so looks like WSJ was reporting "maybe under investigation," then WaPo and others come in with "DEFINITELY NOT UNDER INVESTIGATION 100% CLEARED"


------

BLUNT: The point to me, the concern to me there is, all these things are going on. You now in retrospect, or at least to this committee, you had serious concerns about what the president had, you believed, directed you to do, and had taken no action. Hadn't even reported up the chain of command, assuming you believe there is a chain of command, that these things happened. Do you have a sense looking back that that was a mistake?

COMEY: No. In fact, I think no action was the most important thing I could do.

BLUNT: On the Flynn issue specifically, I believe you said earlier that you believe the president was suggesting you drop any investigation of Flynn's account of his conversation with the Russian ambassador. Which was essentially misleading the vice president and others?

COMEY: Correct. I'm not going to go into the details but whether there were false statements made to government investigators, as well. 


"no action was the most important thing I could do"

interesting


------

LANKFORD: Past the February 14th meeting, which is an important meeting as we discuss the conversations here about Michael Flynn, when the president asked you about he hopes that you would let this go, and the conversation back and forth about being a good guy, after that time, did the president ever bring up anything about Michael Flynn again to you? Had multiple other conversations you had documents with the president.

COMEY: I don't remember him bringing it up again.

LANKFORD: Did a member of the white house staff come up to you asking you to drop the Michael Flynn case, anything referring to that?

COMEY: No.

LANKFORD: Did the Director of National Intelligence talk to you about that?

COMEY: No.

LANKFORD: Did anyone from the attorney general's office, the department of justice ask about that?

COMEY: No.

LANKFORD: Did the head of NSA talk to you about that?

COMEY: No. 


Trump didn't bring up Flynn again, nobody from WH, DNI, AG, NSA didn't ask him to drop

------

LANKFORD: The key aspect here is if this seems to be something the president is trying to get you to drop it, it seems like a light touch to drop it, to bring it up at that point, the day after he had just fired Flynn, to come back here and say, I hope we can let this go, then it never reappears again. Did it slow down your investigation or any investigation that may or may not be occurring with Michael Flynn?

COMEY: No. Although I don't know there are any manifestations between February 14th and when I was fired. I don't know that the president had any way of knowing whether it was effective or not. 


Trump did not slow Flynn investigation, but Comey doesn't know of any way that Trump would know that


how about the report on Feb 16 that Flynn lied to the FBI? would be a manifestation of something... that it didn't work? made it sound like Flynn's fate was up in the air

------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
WHITEHOUSE: Following the Comey line, the director testified a few days ago in the full committee that the FBI had interviewed Mr. Flynn a day before, or two days before, your meeting at the White House, and you've just testified that you had told the White House counsel that the FBI had interviewed Flynn and he'd asked -- McGahn had asked, how'd he do?

YATES: Right.

WHITEHOUSE: Did you have the 302 with you when you were in the White House? Did you show it to White House counsel? And had you seen it at the time you went up to the White House?

YATES: No. The FBI had conducted the interview on the 24th. We got a readout from the FBI on the 25th, a detailed readout specifically from the agents that had conducted the interview.

But we didn't want to wait for the 302, because we felt that it was important to get this information to the White House as quickly as possible, so we had folks from the national security division who spent a lot of time with the agents, not only finding out exactly how the interview went but how this impacted their investigation.

WHITEHOUSE: So did you take that summary with you? Do you have any document with you that described the FBI interview of General Flynn?

YATES: At the time that I was there, I had notes that described that interview, as well as the individual that was with me -- the senior career official from the national security division -- had been part of all of those discussions with the FBI.

WHITEHOUSE: Did you discuss criminal prosecution of Mr. Flynn -- General Flynn?

YATES: My recollection is that did not really come up much in the first meeting. It did come up in the second meeting, when Mr. McGahn called me back the next morning and asked the -- the morning after -- this is the morning of the 27th, now -- and asked me if I could come back to his office.

And so I went back with the NSD official, and there were essentially four topics that he wanted to discuss there, and one of those topics was precisely that. He asked about the applicability of certain statutes, certain criminal statutes and, more specifically, about...

WHITEHOUSE: This was (ph) the second meeting at the White House Council's Office in his office again?

YATES: In his office again.

WHITEHOUSE: With the same two individuals?

YATES: Exactly.

WHITEHOUSE: On the following day?

YATES: Right.

WHITEHOUSE: And you went back pursuant to a phone call request or a -- was...

YATES: Yes, the morning of the 27th after our meeting had occurred on the afternoon of the 26th, the morning of the 27th, Mr. McGahn called me and asked if I could come back to the White House to discuss this further. And we set up a time and I went over there that afternoon, bringing again the same career official with me from the national security division, who was overseeing this investigation.

He had the same associate from the White House Council's Office and we talked through four to five more issues.

WHITEHOUSE: You could perhaps have waited until you actually had seen the agents 302 from the interview of General Flynn. Why go ahead of that? Why not wait?

YATES: Well, because this was a matter of some urgency, we...

WHITEHOUSE: Describe.

YATES: In making the determination about notification here, we had to balance a variety of interest. For the reasons that I just described a few minutes ago, we felt like it was critical that we get this information to the White House, because in part because the vice president was unknowingly making false statements to the public and because we believed that General Flynn was compromised with respect to the Russians.

We were balancing this though, against the FBI's investigation, as you would always do, and take into account the investigating agency's desires and concerns about how a notification might impact that ongoing investigation. But once General Flynn was interviewed, there was no longer a concern about an impact on an investigation.

WHITEHOUSE: Do you know where that interview took place or under what circumstances?

YATES: I believe it took place at the White House.

WHITEHOUSE: The Flynn interview?

YATES: Yes.

WHITEHOUSE: OK. Do you know if Flynn was represented by council at the time?

YATES: I don't believe he was.

------

COONS: ...On January 27th you just testified that you discussed with White -- White House Counsel McGahn four different topics, and one of them included the possibility of criminal prosecution of the former national security adviser, and what would the applicable statutes be.

What applicable statutes did you discuss, and in your conclusion, should the national security adviser face criminal prosecution?

YATES: Senator Coons, I'm going to strike out here, because, if I identified the statute, then that would be insight into what the conduct was. And, look, I'm not trying to be hyper-technical here. I'm trying to be really careful that I observe my responsibilities to protect classified information. And so I -- I can't identify the statute.

------

BLUMENTHAL: ...The meeting that the FBI conducted on January 24th preceded by one day, approximately, your first meeting with Donald McGahn. Isn't it a fact that Michael Flynn lied to the FBI?

YATES: And I can't reveal the internal FBI investigation, Senator, even though it's not -- even though part would not be technically classified, it's on ongoing investigation and I can't reveal that.

BLUMENTHAL: Did you tell Donald McGahn that then-National Security Adviser Flynn told the truth to the FBI?

YATES: No, he asked me how he had done in the interview, and I specifically declined to answer that.

BLUMENTHAL: Because it was part of an investigation?

YATES: That's right.

BLUMENTHAL: Was that intended to indicate to him that Michael Flynn had a problem in that interview?

YATES: No, I was intending to let him know that Michael Flynn had a problem on a lot of levels, but it wasn't necessarily with respect to how he performed in the interview. I was intentionally not letting him know how the interview had gone.

BLUMENTHAL: And lying to the FBI is a crime, correct?

YATES: It is, yes.


------

so Yates got a readout, breifed McGahn on the 26th, mentioned interview, intentionally didn't tell him how it went (specifically on the 26th?), then later talked to McGahn about criminal prosecution of Flynn

------

WHITEHOUSE: Did you discuss criminal prosecution of Mr. Flynn -- General Flynn?

YATES: My recollection is that did not really come up much in the first meeting. It did come up in the second meeting, when Mr. McGahn called me back the next morning and asked the -- the morning after -- this is the morning of the 27th, now -- and asked me if I could come back to his office.

And so I went back with the NSD official, and there were essentially four topics that he wanted to discuss there, and one of those topics was precisely that. He asked about the applicability of certain statutes, certain criminal statutes and, more specifically, about...


here Yates says "certain criminal statutes" plural, in other place says statute singular


COONS: On January 27th you just testified that you discussed with White -- White House Counsel McGahn four different topics, and one of them included the possibility of criminal prosecution of the former national security adviser, and what would the applicable statutes be.

What applicable statutes did you discuss, and in your conclusion, should the national security adviser face criminal prosecution?

YATES: Senator Coons, I'm going to strike out here, because, if I identified the statute, then that would be insight into what the conduct was. And, look, I'm not trying to be hyper-technical here. I'm trying to be really careful that I observe my responsibilities to protect classified information. And so I -- I can't identify the statute.


hmmm, would Yates even have known Flynn lied to the FBI on the 26th? didn't get a 302 then
