https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/prosecutors-former-cia-officer-accused-of-spying-for-china-could-have-gotten-people-killed/2017/07/08/cc993602-6365-11e7-a4f7-af34fc1d9d39_story.html
	Prosecutors: Former CIA officer accused of spying for China could have gotten people killed 

	By Rachel Weiner July 8

	A former CIA officer accused of spying for China had notes in his home that could have gotten clandestine sources killed, according to prosecutors in Alexandria federal court.


	...One of the documents he is alleged to have passed on to the Chinese “reveals the breadth and depth” of the CIA’s understanding of “a specific hostile foreign intelligence service,” according to Shiner, including details on that foreign service’s approach to counterintelligence. 


interesting, which one? if the KGB then not such a bad thing...


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/man-accused-of-selling-secrets-to-china-linked-to-cia/2017/07/08/784cfdd2-6418-11e7-80a2-8c226031ac3f_story.html
	By Associated Press July 8

	ALEXANDRIA, Va. — A man accused of selling Top Secret information to China has been ordered held without bond after prosecutors revealed his links to the CIA.

	A magistrate had initially ruled that 60-year-old Kevin Mallory of Leesburg could be free on bond while he awaits trial on charges of violating the Espionage Act. Prosecutors say Mallory was caught by Customs agents with $16,500 in undeclared cash earlier this year on a flight from Shanghai, prompting the investigation.

	In court papers Friday, prosecutors revealed for the first time that Mallory was a covert CIA case officer from 1990 to 1996, and later a CIA contractor.

So same day they reveal the guy's connections to the CIA, and also that he had info on him that could get CIA officers killed


that some kind of threat?


------


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/20/world/asia/china-cia-spies-espionage.html
	Killing C.I.A. Informants, China Crippled U.S. Spying Operations

	By MARK MAZZETTI, ADAM GOLDMAN, MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and MATT APUZZO MAY 20, 2017 

	The Chinese government systematically dismantled C.I.A. spying operations in the country starting in 2010, killing or imprisoning more than a dozen sources over two years and crippling intelligence gathering there for years afterward.


staring in 2010--was this after illegals arrested?

	Current and former American officials described the intelligence breach as one of the worst in decades. It set off a scramble in Washington’s intelligence and law enforcement agencies to contain the fallout, but investigators were bitterly divided over the cause. Some were convinced that a mole within the C.I.A. had betrayed the United States. Others believed that the Chinese had hacked the covert system the C.I.A. used to communicate with its foreign sources. Years later, that debate remains unresolved.


well they just arrested a guy selling that kind of information to China...


but why is a Russian propagandist talking about this? and what is significance of timing?

	But there was no disagreement about the damage. From the final weeks of 2010 through the end of 2012, according to former American officials, the Chinese killed at least a dozen of the C.I.A.’s sources. According to three of the officials, one was shot in front of his colleagues in the courtyard of a government building — a message to others who might have been working for the C.I.A.


is that how they do it? did Chinese intelligence do this at all?


says started near the end of 2010, so after June.


	The mole hunt eventually zeroed in on a former agency operative who had worked in the C.I.A.’s division overseeing China, believing he was most likely responsible for the crippling disclosures. But efforts to gather enough evidence to arrest him failed, and he is now living in another Asian country, current and former officials said.


So they found the mole and he got away? different from Kevin Mallory?


	As investigators narrowed the list of suspects with access to the information, they started focusing on a Chinese-American who had left the C.I.A. shortly before the intelligence losses began. Some investigators believed he had become disgruntled and had begun spying for China. One official said the man had access to the identities of C.I.A. informants and fit all the indicators on a matrix used to identify espionage threats.

	After leaving the C.I.A., the man decided to remain in Asia with his family and pursue a business opportunity, which some officials suspect that Chinese intelligence agents had arranged.


which man is that?

doesn't sound like Mallory, he left in 2012, and Mallory's family in U.S.


	China has been particularly aggressive in its espionage in recent years, beyond the breach of the Office of Personnel Management records in 2015, American officials said. Last year, an F.B.I. employee pleaded guilty to acting as a Chinese agent for years, passing sensitive technology information to Beijing in exchange for cash, lavish hotel rooms during foreign travel and prostitutes.


That was Kun Shan Chun?


	In March, prosecutors announced the arrest of a longtime State Department employee, Candace Marie Claiborne, accused of lying to investigators about her contacts with Chinese officials. According to the criminal complaint against Ms. Claiborne, who pleaded not guilty, Chinese agents wired cash into her bank account and showered her with gifts that included an iPhone, a laptop and tuition at a Chinese fashion school. In addition, according to the complaint, she received a fully furnished apartment and a stipend.


And another, Candace Marie Claiborne



------


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/20/world/asia/china-cia-spies-espionage.html
	WASHINGTON — The Chinese government systematically dismantled C.I.A. spying operations in the country starting in 2010, killing or imprisoning more than a dozen sources over two years and crippling intelligence gathering there for years afterward.

	Current and former American officials described the intelligence breach as one of the worst in decades. It set off a scramble in Washington’s intelligence and law enforcement agencies to contain the fallout

	...But there was no disagreement about the damage. From the final weeks of 2010 through the end of 2012, according to former American officials, the Chinese killed at least a dozen of the C.I.A.’s sources. According to three of the officials, one was shot in front of his colleagues in the courtyard of a government building — a message to others who might have been working for the C.I.A.

	Still others were put in jail. All told, the Chinese killed or imprisoned 18 to 20 of the C.I.A.’s sources in China, according to two former senior American officials, effectively unraveling a network that had taken years to build.

	...Still, the Chinese picked off more and more of the agency’s spies, continuing through 2011 and into 2012. 



so the Mazzitt Apuzzo article is worded like a threat, at least





--------


http://heavy.com/news/2017/06/kevin-mallory-china-leak-classified-information-top-secret-virginia/
	...Mallory also told federal agents that he contacted a government agency for assistance, saying that he wanted to talk about people he recently met in China. Once the meeting was granted on May 12, he spoke about how he thought the people that he met in Shanghai were actually Chinese intelligence agents, based on his past employment history.

	According to the Washington Post, Mallory reached out to former CIA co-workers and employees of the agency. The CIA has declined to comment.

	...Mallory claimed he was speaking of the two unclassified documents and was simply “stringing” the Chinese agents along, implying he didn’t actually have anything else to give to them.

	But other text messages that were recovered by federal agents found Mallory mentioning that he intended supplying other classified documents for additional payments.

	“I am taking the real risk as you (Chinese agents) and higher-up bosses know,” Mallory allegedly wrote in a message that was recovered. “When you get the OK to replace the prior payment, then I will send more docs. I will also type my notes. NOTE: In the future, I will destroy all electronic records after you confirm receipt…I already destroyed the paper records. I cannot keep these around, too dangerous.”

	Further analysis of the device showed eight handwritten documents, and three of them contained classified information, with one of the three containing top secret information.


hmmm


Mallory framed?


not sure if a double agent or not

text messages thing seems fishy

Boente too


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/prosecutors-former-cia-officer-accused-of-spying-for-china-could-have-gotten-people-killed/2017/07/08/cc993602-6365-11e7-a4f7-af34fc1d9d39_story.html
	On a phone that Mallory admitted was given to him by someone he thought worked for Chinese intelligence, eight documents were found, authorities said. Six were classified CIA documents and one was a classified Defense Intelligence Agency document, FBI agent Stephen Green testified Friday. The last is a mix of typed and handwritten pages that are still being reviewed.

	At least two of the documents were transmitted to the Chinese earlier this year, according to prosecutors. 

	...Antoinette Shiner, an information review officer for the CIA, confirmed in a declaration filed in court Friday that Mallory’s documents contained sensitive CIA intelligence, analysis of that intelligence and, in some instances, the actual human or technical sources of the intelligence.

	One of the documents he is alleged to have passed on to the Chinese “reveals the breadth and depth” of the CIA’s understanding of “a specific hostile foreign intelligence service,” according to Shiner, including details on that foreign service’s approach to counterintelligence. 


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/jun/23/us-defense-contractor-caught-with-16500-in-luggage-is-charged-with-spying-for-china
	They trained him in using a special communication device which, when examined by investigators, showed Mallory planning to hand over more documents.


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/prosecutors-former-cia-officer-accused-of-spying-for-china-could-have-gotten-people-killed/2017/07/08/cc993602-6365-11e7-a4f7-af34fc1d9d39_story.html
	Prosecutors also played in court a phone call from jail in which Mallory asked his wife and son whether a particular memory card had been seized by FBI agents. The card had been seized, and the eight documents were on it. It was found wrapped in foil inside a shoe in Mallory’s closet, according to Assistant U.S. Attorney John Gibbs.


wtf? but he'd have to know that would be monitored, right?


what's going on here?


	At the end of the call, Mallory says it’s “good” that agents found the card and that he had merely hoped to give it to his lawyer first so he would know it hadn’t been tampered with in some way. 


this is some weird shit


perhaps something to clear him in case this happens? called because he wanted the memory card seized by FBI?


	Kamens pointed out that Mallory repeatedly reached out to his former CIA colleagues about his contact with the Chinese agents, even before the first of his two trips to China this spring. It was after his second trip that Mallory was caught lying to Customs agents about how much money he was carrying home.

	Kamens suggested Chinese intelligence runs “a very sophisticated organization” and could have put the classified documents on the phone themselves in hopes of “blackmailing him so they could obtain information in the future.” He also implied, in Ellis’s words, that Mallory was working as a freelance “double agent,” aiming to expose Chinese attempts at espionage. 


right, so defense is saying he's a double agent



------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/prosecutors-former-cia-officer-accused-of-spying-for-china-could-have-gotten-people-killed/2017/07/08/cc993602-6365-11e7-a4f7-af34fc1d9d39_story.html
	A magistrate judge last week ordered Mallory’s release on a $10,000 bond. But U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis overturned that decision Friday, in part based on the new details revealed regarding Mallory’s CIA career and the documents found in his possession. 

	...He also implied, in Ellis’s words, that Mallory was working as a freelance “double agent,” aiming to expose Chinese attempts at espionage. 

	The judge was not persuaded by either suggestion, noting that according to the criminal complaint Mallory was paid $25,000 by the Chinese.

	...“He’s cleverer than most,” Ellis said. By going to the CIA at the same time, “he’s trying to make sure he has a way out.”

	He ruled that Mallory was both a flight risk and a danger to the community, because he might trade the rest of his intelligence for help getting out of the country.

	The Chinese, Ellis said, “would love to have him so they could drain him of information and make sure he doesn’t talk very much.” 


Judge Ellis seems convinced he's a Chinese agent?


------


so maybe KGB likes to blackmail CIA by exposing their intel operations in foreign countries, particularly China

would also help with their goal of splitting U.S. and China, and give them plausible deniability (compared to outing agents in Russia which would look more like retaliation by them).

So text message mentioning "notes" found on Mallory's device, and prosecutors now say "notes" contain intel that could get sources in China killed, which happened last time

So one thing KGB could do is plant the intel outing CIA agents in China on Mallory, giving them plausible deniability for outing them

would also get Mallory killed if found guilty in court


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/ex-cia-agent-accused-of-helping-china-claims-he-exposed-scheme/2017/06/29/e6bf085a-5d01-11e7-a9f6-7c3296387341_story.html
	Ex-CIA agent, accused of helping China, claims he exposed scheme
	By Rachel Weiner June 29

	Weeks before he was charged with espionage, former CIA officer Kevin Mallory voluntarily went to his old co-workers and told them he had been in touch with Chinese intelligence.

	On that point, both sides in the Alexandria federal court case agree. But while Mallory’s defense attorneys argue their client was trying to be helpful, prosecutors say he was trying to cover his tracks.


as far as I can tell Wiener not covering case with that much bias?


question if the "oh by the way he had intel on him that could get more CIA officers killed" line was some kind of signal

although it was said by prosecutors first, not her?


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/at-height-of-russia-tensions-trump-campaign-chairman-manafort-met-with-business-associate-from-ukraine/2017/06/18/6ab8485c-4c5d-11e7-a186-60c031eab644_story.html?utm_term=.9b737ea8bb7a


here she is with Helderman and Hamburger
