https://twitter.com/BraddJaffy/status/864234970549817345

https://www.buzzfeed.com/jimdalrympleii/trump-highly-classified-information-russians?utm_term=.tt2MNKDGk#.wapZ78R6g

	Trump Revealed Highly Classified Information To Russians During White House Visit

	The president disclosed classified intelligence with the Russian ambassador and foreign minister last week, two US officials confirmed to BuzzFeed News.

	Originally posted on May 15, 2017, at 9:24 p.m.
	Updated on May 16, 2017, at 2:13 a.m.

	Jim Dalrymple II
	Jason Leopold


	Two US officials who were briefed on Trump’s disclosures last week confirmed to BuzzFeed News the veracity of the Washington Post report, with one noting that “it’s far worse than what has already been reported.” The official was referring to the extent of the classified intelligence information Trump disclosed to the Russian ambassador and foreign minister.

Who are the two officials?


------

Goldsmith on cityleak:

https://www.lawfareblog.com/bombshell-initial-thoughts-washington-posts-game-changing-story
	Deputy national security advisor Dina Powell has denied the story as false. Notably, national security advisor General H.R. McMaster limited his denial to the fact that, “At no time were any intelligence sources or methods discussed and no military operations were disclosed that were not already known publicly.” Likewise, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has denied disclosure of any information on “sources, methods or military operations.” These are both very carefully worded statements that leave open the possibility that classified information was disclosed other than sources and methods or that classified information was disclosed which might be used as a basis to infer sources and methods not directly disclosed. 

sounds right!


https://twitter.com/abbydphillip/status/864249105857622016
"denial"


	In a hastily-convened press conference outside the White House, McMaster further stated:

	Again, this statement is carefully worded. The declaration that the story “as reported” is untrue leaves plenty of room for the administration to pinpoint discrepancies in the Post story without denying the substance.

Assigning motive? Like McMaster said, premise false, facts true (as far as I can tell anyway)

	And once again, McMaster does not deny that an egregious breach of national security information was revealed

yes he does...


	There may be disclosures yet to come. According to one current U.S. official quoted in Buzzfeed, the situation is “far worse than what has already been reported.” The New York Times writes that “sharing the information without the express permission of the ally who provided it ... could jeopardize a crucial intelligence-sharing relationship.”

	This is perhaps the gravest allegation of presidential misconduct in the scandal-ridden four months of the Trump administration. This story is likely to be immensely consequential. Below are some initial thoughts based on the facts available about what this story is, what it isn’t, and what we do and do not yet know.


	...Fifth, this may well be a violation of the President’s oath of office. 

Goldsmith want to impeach Trump over this?


------

http://foreignpolicy.com/2017/05/16/mcmasters-former-deputy-in-iraq-an-officer-must-not-just-stand-by-while-a-lie-is-being-promulgated/


Maybe Thomas E. Ricks  trying to turn this into a hit-peice on McMaster? subtly accusing him of being a liar?


http://foreignpolicy.com/2017/05/16/in-2006-h-r-mcmaster-was-mad-at-me-as-im-sure-he-is-at-the-washington-post-now-and-why-that-worries-me-a-lot/

Looks like another McMaster hitpeice by Ricks

Hitpeices on McMaster:

https://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/2017/05/17/the-corruption-mcmaster/7wNPqOBlHJ9apZu0eMBN9J/story.html
Michael A. Cohen


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/16/us/white-house-staff.html
Haberman and Thrush

	As they struggled to limit the fallout on Monday, Mr. Spicer and other Trump aides decided to send Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, the national security adviser, to serve as a surrogate.

	They realized that selecting such a high-ranking official would in some ways validate the story, but they wanted to establish a credible witness account exonerating the president from wrongdoing — before the barrage of Twitter posts they knew would be coming from Mr. Trump on Tuesday morning.

	The White House Counsel’s Office worked with the national security adviser, an Army general, on framing language, producing a clipped sound bite: “The story that came out tonight as reported is false.”


	...In private, three administration officials conceded that they could not publicly articulate their most compelling — and honest — defense of the president for divulging classified intelligence to the Russians: that Mr. Trump, a hasty and indifferent reader of his briefing materials, simply did not possess the interest or the knowledge of the granular details of intelligence gathering to leak specific sources and methods of intelligence gathering that would harm American allies.

	Mr. McMaster all but said that publicly from the briefing room lectern.

	“The president wasn’t even aware where this information came from,” Mr. McMaster said. “He wasn’t briefed on the source or method of the information either.”


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/27/us/politics/trump-returns-to-crisis-over-kushner-as-white-house-tries-to-contain-it.html
	The reports about Mr. Kushner dominated an end-of-trip briefing for reporters in Taormina, Italy, where Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, the president’s national security adviser, and Gary D. Cohn, his top economic adviser, declined to comment specifically on Mr. Kushner but sought to play down the significance of the disclosures.

	“We have back-channel communications with any number of countries,” General McMaster said. “So, generally speaking, about back-channel communications, what that allows you to do is to communicate in a discreet manner. It doesn’t predispose you to any kind of content in that conversation.”

	He did not say whether he was comfortable with the idea of a private citizen, as Mr. Kushner was at the time, opening such a back channel.

	Behind the scenes, Mr. Trump’s advisers were working to create a crisis-control communications operation within the White House to separate the Russia investigations and related scandals from the administration’s day-to-day themes and the work of governing, according to several people familiar with their plans who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to divulge the details of a still-evolving strategy.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/a-new-role-for-mcmaster-trumps-shield/2017/05/16/c49bdcd0-3a60-11e7-a058-ddbb23c75d82_story.html
Greg Jaffe (one of the authors of the WaPo story)



https://www.vox.com/world/2017/5/16/15646762/trump-russia-classified-information-explainer
	Top White House officials, most notably National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster, have called the story “false.” But if you parse their statements more carefully, you see that they’re not actually responding to the Post’s story.

	In both a written statement and a Tuesday press conference, McMaster was very careful to say only that the president hadn’t compromised “sources and methods.” In intel-speak, that means the president didn’t directly tell the Russians who or what were the sources of the intelligence on ISIS or the method by which it was gathered (human spies, communications intercepts, drone imagery and the like).

	But the Post and other outlets never said that the president disclosed sources or methods directly. Instead, they reported that the president gave away enough classified information that the Russian could easily figure out the sources and methods on their own.


Here's what they said:
	President Trump revealed highly classified information to the Russian foreign minister and ambassador in a White House meeting last week, according to current and former U.S. officials, who said Trump’s disclosures jeopardized a critical source of intelligence on the Islamic State. 

	...The identification of the location was seen as particularly problematic, officials said, because Russia could use that detail to help identify the U.S. ally or intelligence capability involved.


	...A former intelligence official who handled high-level intelligence on Russia said that given the clues Trump provided, “I don’t think that it would be that hard [for Russian spy services] to figure this out.”


What McMaster said was that the premise of the story is false. He made that clear upfront.


	“Trump revealed the city in the Islamic State’s territory where the U.S. intelligence partner detected the threat,” Miller and Jaffe write. “The identification of the location was seen as particularly problematic, officials said, because Russia could use that detail to help identify the US ally or intelligence capability involved.”

	No White House official has denied this aspect of the Post’s reporting. They appear to be playing, as Jaffe put it in an MSNBC appearance, “word games” — setting up a fake version of what the Post alleged, that Trump directly disclosed sources and methods, and then knocking that down.

	In fact, the White House spin — particularly during McMaster’s Tuesday presser — ended up confirming some key aspects of the Post’s story.


------


https://www.commondreams.org/views/2017/05/16/just-how-sensitive-was-information-trump-reportedly-revealed-russians


interesting, seems like on obvious Russian propaganda sites the McMaster story doesn't show up?
