https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/04/us/politics/health-care-bill-vote.html
	After weeks of negotiations and false starts, Mr. Trump and House Republicans were not about to dwell on the tough road ahead. Passage of the health care bill completed a remarkable act of political resuscitation, six weeks after House leaders failed to muster the votes to pass an earlier version of the measure, a blow to Mr. Trump and Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin.

	“Yes, premiums will be coming down; yes, deductibles will be coming down, but very importantly, it’s a great plan,” Mr. Trump boasted on Thursday at the kind of White House Rose Garden victory ceremony typically reserved for legislation that is being signed into law, not for a controversial bill that passed just one chamber.

	“We want to brag about the plan,” Mr. Trump said, after asking those assembled how he was doing in his debut as a politician. “Hey, I’m president!”

	Mr. Trump quickly turned his attention to pressuring the Senate to act, calling the majority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, to talk about the way forward for the health plan.


Pressure from Trump. How exactly? Why would they assume they have to respond?


	“I have never seen political suicide in my life like I’m seeing today,” Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of New York, said on the House floor before the vote.

Seriously, they must know this, right? worse damage to them politically than "defying" Trump you would think (nevermind the damage to the country...)

	Republican senators are certain to face pressure from governors worried about constituents on Medicaid losing their coverage. Republican leaders changed the House bill to woo hard-line conservatives, allowing state governments to roll back required coverage for essential services like maternity and emergency care. States could also seek waivers that would let insurers charge higher premiums for some people with pre-existing medical conditions.

why "woo hard-line conservatives"? What exactly does this mean?

	“Obamacare has hijacked the free market and has taken some Americans’ liberties with it,” Representative Doug Collins, Republican of Georgia, said on the floor, adding that the health law “replaced our doctors with bureaucrats, because that’s what socialized medicine does.”


sounds like one of them?

	Democrats worked to link House Republicans’ actions to an unpopular president. “The Pied Piper of Trump Tower is playing a tune today, and they must dance,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas.

According to this article, democrats are fucking morons

Makes it sound like they are happy millions of peoples' health insurance could be taken away

Is it true that Trump pulled levers to influence Congress here? or the Okhrana? Or talking heads on Fox News, Hannity types, Drudge, those guys?

	In truth, Republicans argued, with so many problems afflicting the Affordable Care Act, the status quo is unsustainable, regardless of what Congress does. Hours before the vote, Mr. Trump pointed to Aetna’s announcement this week that it would no longer offer policies on Virginia’s Affordable Care Act exchange.

	“Death spiral!” the president wrote on Twitter.

So this could influence them? why didn't they just say "sure but wait for the CBO?"


------

https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/05/04/us/how-republican-voted-on-health-bill.html
	A total of 19 hard-line conservatives associated with the Freedom Caucus, who expressed opposition or reservations to the original bill, voted “yes” on Thursday. These representatives, from the districts shown above, gave the revised bill enough votes to pass — the bill needed 216 “yes” votes and received 217.

	Some of the group’s members who opposed the original bill were swayed by changes made last week that would allow states to obtain waivers from certain insurance rules, including one that prevents insurers from increasing prices for people with pre-existing health conditions.

	Among the hard-line conservatives who voted “yes” were 14 who refused to budge last time, even after President Trump met with them and tried wooing them with concessions, including an amendment to weaken the requirement that health insurers provide a basic set of coverage, known as essential health benefits.

So the reason it didn't pass last time was that it didn't take away enough sick people's insurance...


------

What exactly happened last time?


http://www.cnn.com/2017/03/24/politics/house-health-care-vote/

	Seven years of Republican efforts to eradicate President Barack Obama's proudest domestic achievement ended Friday before a single vote was cast.

	House Speaker Paul Ryan sensationally pulled his Obamacare repeal bill from the floor Friday afternoon, a day after President Donald Trump had threatened to walk away from health care reform if he didn't get a vote.

	"We were very close," Trump said in the Oval Office after the bill was pulled. "It was a very, very tight margin."

	The decision to delay the vote marks an acute embarrassment for the President, who had gambled big by presenting holdout House conservatives with a take-it-or-leave it ultimatum Thursday night and put his own credibility on the line.
	
	It became clear during a day of intense political intrigue that despite fierce arm-twisting by Trump, Ryan and other leaders that the votes simply were not there to pass the bill and the leadership and the White House were headed for a lopsided defeat.

But this was mostly from the house freedom caucus who wanted to make it worse?

	They were unable to narrow the schism between Freedom Caucus conservatives, who believe the bill keeps too much of Obamacare intact, and moderates who worry they will pay an electoral price if millions of Americans lose health insurance.

OK so moderates also opposed

Assuming House freedom caucus working for the Russians--why did they block it last time? Maybe wanted to keep it around as something they could use later?


------


http://www.npr.org/2017/05/04/526866090/trump-confident-about-gop-health-care-bills-prospects-in-the-senate
	After passing the measure, House Republicans jumped on buses for a quick trip to an unusual victory lap event in the White House Rose Garden — given that the measure has a long way before it actually becomes law.

How many are actually happy about this?

------

http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/trump-gop-leaders-take-victory-lap-after-house-passes-trumpcare-n754896

	 "They're not even doing it for the party," Trump said as he stood flanked by Republican House leaders and rank-and-file members in the Rose Garden at the White House. "They're doing it for this country because we suffered with Obamacare."

	Just before the president spoke, House Speaker Paul Ryan was seen in the Oval with Trump smiling and shaking hands.

Ryan involved with Trump in this?

	White House Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters Thursday in a gaggle before voting had ended that the president had been "incredibly engaged in this process" and engaged directly with fifteen to twenty members of Congress to get them to yes.

Who? What exactly was he doing? (referring to House Freedom Caucus here? make Trump feel like he's accomplishing something/making deals?)

Actually that could be why in party freedom caucus blocked last time and demanded it to be worse. Set an "anchor" with Trump so that the bill sucks, he "negotiates" with them and feels like he accomplished something.

	Republicans voted on the bill without a new Congressional Budget Office analysis of the cost and impact. Asked Thursday why the rush to vote without a CBO score, Sanders told White House reporters that "it's impossible to score" or assess the legislation's potential impact because of so many moving parts. 

Who actually believes this? wtf was the entire House GOP thinking?


------

http://www.cnbc.com/2017/05/04/gop-congressman-i-dont-think-any-individual-has-read-health-bill.html
	"Oh, gosh," Garrett said on MSNBC on Thursday morning when asked if he has read the entire text of the GOP's American Health Care Act.

	"Let's put it this way: People in my office have read all parts of the bill."

	"I don't think any individual has read the whole bill," Garrett said. "That's why we have staff."

But that's also why you have the Congressional Budget Office...

Staff are spies? could staff be misleading them?

hard to say how this disaster happened


blackmail? healthcare companies threaten to pull campaign funding? Trump threaten to "primary" them?

last time:

http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/trump-threatens-gop-back-health-bill-or-get-primaried/article/2617074
	President Trump has told Republican leaders that he's prepared to play hardball with congressional conservatives to pass the GOP healthcare bill, including by supporting the 2018 primary challengers of any Republican who votes against the bill.

	Sources told the Washington Examiner that Trump made that threat in a White House meeting on Tuesday with House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., and other members of the House GOP whip team that helps line up votes.

"Sources told the Washington Examiner" this true? hmm


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-obamacare-idUSKBN16R2P9
	"The president was really clear: He laid it on the line for everybody," House Speaker Paul Ryan, the leading proponent of the bill, told reporters. "We made a promise. Now is our time to keep that promise. ... If we don't keep our promise, it will be very hard to manage this."

Hinting at more pressure from Trump and Ryan (and... Russia?)

	“You have this back and forth in Congress with the new healthcare plan and you have this belief that if the healthcare plan can’t pass, then they can’t move on to taxes. There’s this feeling that if things don’t get done, then maybe what the market has been anticipating gets held up," said Mark Kepner, managing director at Themis Trading in Chatham, New Jersey. 

Hinting at pressure from campaign donors

	Republican Representative Walter Jones said Trump told lawmakers in the closed-door meeting at the Capitol that if the Republican bill does not pass, they would face "political problems." Jones said he thought Trump meant lawmakers could lose their seats.

There it is

	While Trump predicted that Republicans could face challenges in primary contests ahead of the 2018 midterm elections if they do not gut Obamacare, there is also danger to them in doing so. If the Republican bill is passed, millions of voters might lose their healthcare coverage.

So Trump using his mafia-tactics to get Congress to pass this bill I take it?

	Nancy Nielsen, associate dean for health policy at the University at Buffalo's Jacobs School of Medicine, said Republican leaders were in a tough spot.

	"It is a not-so-delicate balancing act, as they have to win over the most conservative House and Senate members without causing an outrageous backlash from voters now or in the next election," Nielsen said. 

"have to"? why do they have to do any of this?
