https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/11/us/politics/trump-comey-firing.html
	By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

	At the dinner described by Mr. Trump in his interview with NBC, the conversation with Mr. Comey was quite different. Mr. Trump told NBC that Mr. Comey requested it to ask to keep his job. Mr. Trump said he asked the F.B.I. director if he was under investigation, a question that legal experts called highly unusual if not improper. In Mr. Trump’s telling, Mr. Comey reassured him that he was not.


Why didn't this report mention Trump asking Comey if he wanted to keep his job?

makes it seem like that's *not* what happened.


------

https://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-eyes-michael-flynns-links-to-russia-1485134942
https://www.dowjones.com/scoops/u-s-eyes-michael-flynns-links-russia/
	U.S. Eyes Michael Flynn’s Links to Russia
	By Carol E. Lee, Devlin Barrett andShane Harris
	Jan. 22, 2017 8:29 p.m. ET 

	Counterintelligence agents have investigated communications by President Trump’s national security adviser, including phone calls to Russian ambassador in late December

	Michael Flynn is the first person inside the White House under Mr. Trump whose communications are known to have faced scrutiny as part of investigations by the Federal Bureau of Investigation

	...It isn’t clear when the counterintelligence inquiry began, whether it produced any incriminating evidence or if it is continuing. Mr. Flynn, a retired general who became national security adviser with Mr. Trump’s inauguration, plays a key role in setting U.S. policy toward Russia.

	The counterintelligence inquiry aimed to determine the nature of Mr. Flynn’s contact with Russian officials and whether such contacts may have violated laws, people familiar with the matter said.

	A key issue in the investigation is a series of telephone calls Mr. Flynn made to Sergey Kislyak, the Russian ambassador to the U.S., on Dec. 29. That day, the Obama administration announced sanctions and other measures against Russia in retaliation for its alleged use of cyberattacks to interfere with the 2016 U.S. election. U.S. intelligence officials have said Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered the hacks on Democratic Party officials to try to harm Hillary Clinton’s presidential bid.

	Officials also have examined earlier conversations between Mr. Flynn and Russian figures, the people familiar with the matter said. Russia has previously denied involvement in election-related hacking.


https://www.wsj.com/articles/gop-operative-sought-clinton-emails-from-hackers-implied-a-connection-to-flynn-1498770851
https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/gop-operative-sought-clinton-emails-from-hackers-implied-a-connection-to-flynn/ar-BBDtlhy
	GOP Operative Sought Clinton Emails From Hackers, Implied a Connection to Flynn

	Peter W. Smith portrayed the former general as an ally in an effort, independent of the Trump campaign, to find personal emails deleted by Hillary Clinton
	By Shane Harris

 	June 29, 2017 5:14 p.m. ET

	WASHINGTON—Before the 2016 presidential election, a longtime Republican opposition researcher mounted an independent campaign to obtain emails he believed were stolen from Hillary Clinton’s private server, likely by Russian hackers.

	In conversations with members of his circle and with others he tried to recruit to help him, the GOP operative, Peter W. Smith, implied he was working with retired Lt. Gen. Mike Flynn, at the time a senior adviser to then-candidate Donald Trump. 

	“He said, ‘I’m talking to Michael Flynn about this — if you find anything, can you let me know?’” said Eric York, a computer-security expert from Atlanta who searched hacker forums on Mr. Smith’s behalf for people who might have access to the emails.

	Emails written by Mr. Smith and one of his associates show that his small group considered Mr. Flynn and his consulting company, Flynn Intel Group, to be allies in their quest.

	What role, if any, Mr. Flynn may have played in Mr. Smith’s project is unclear. In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Smith said he knew Mr. Flynn, but he never stated that Mr. Flynn was involved.

	Mr. Flynn didn’t respond to requests for comment.


	...In the interview with the Journal, Mr. Smith said he and his colleagues found five groups of hackers who claimed to possess Mrs. Clinton’s deleted emails, including two groups he determined were Russians.

	“We knew the people who had these were probably around the Russian government,” Mr. Smith said.

	U.S. intelligence agencies have accused the Russians of stealing emails from the Democratic National Committee and Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman, John Podesta, and providing them to WikiLeaks last summer as part of a multifaceted operation to interfere with the election and help Mr. Trump’s campaign. Mr. Trump on July 27 publicly encouraged Russia to go further and find the Clinton “emails that are missing.” Asked about that on Monday, White House press secretary Sean Spicer said Mr. Trump was joking.

	Mr. Smith said after vetting batches of emails offered to him by hacker groups last fall, he couldn’t be sure enough of their authenticity to leak them himself. “We told all the groups to give them to WikiLeaks,” he said. WikiLeaks has never published those emails or claimed to have them.

	Mr. Smith and one of his associates said they had a line of communication with Mr. Flynn and his consulting company.

	In one Smith email reviewed by the Journal, intended to entice outside experts to join his work, he offered to make introductions to Mr. Flynn’s son, Michael G. Flynn, who worked as chief of staff in his father’s company. Mr. Smith’s email mentioned the son among a small number of other people he said were helping.

	Michael G. Flynn didn’t respond to a request for comment.

	In another recruiting email seen by the Journal, Jonathan Safron, a law student Mr. Smith described as a close colleague, included links to the websites and LinkedIn profiles of people purportedly working with the Smith team. At the top of the list was the name and website of Flynn Intel, which Mr. Flynn set up after his 2014 firing as director of the Defense Intelligence Agency.

	Mr. Safron declined to comment on his email or Mr. Smith’s project.

	In phone conversations, Mr. Smith told a computer expert he was in direct contact with Mr. Flynn and his son, according to this expert. The person said an anti-Clinton research document prepared by Mr. Smith’s group identified the younger Mr. Flynn as someone associated with the effort. The expert said that based on his conversations with Mr. Smith, he understood the elder Mr. Flynn to be coordinating with Mr. Smith’s group in his capacity as a Trump campaign adviser.


http://www.latimes.com/politics/la-na-pol-trump-news-conference-transcript-20170216-story.html
	So director of national intelligence just put out, acting a statement, any suggestion that the United States intelligence community, this was just given to us, is withholding information and not providing the best possible intelligence to the president and his national security team is not true.

	So they took this front page story out of The Wall Street Journal top and they just wrote the story that its not true. And I'll tell you something, I'll be honest, because I sort of enjoy this back and forth that I guess I have all my life but I've never seen more dishonest media than frankly, the political media. I thought the financial media was much better, much more honest.


https://www.wsj.com/articles/spies-keep-intelligence-from-donald-trump-1487209351
	Spies Keep Intelligence From Donald Trump on Leak Concerns
	Decision to withhold information underscores deep mistrust between intelligence community and president

	By Shane Harris and Carol E. Lee
	Updated Feb. 16, 2017 12:33 a.m. ET

	U.S. intelligence officials have withheld sensitive intelligence from President Donald Trump because they are concerned it could be leaked or compromised, according to current and former officials familiar with the matter.


woops!


------

http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/07/politics/james-comey-memos-testimony/index.html
	January 6 Briefing

	...I discussed with the FBI's leadership team whether I should be prepared to assure President-Elect Trump that we were not investigating him personally. ..During our one-on-one meeting at Trump Tower, based on President Elect Trump's reaction to the briefing and without him directly asking the question, I offered that assurance.


https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/11/president_trumps_full_interview_with_lester_holt.html
	TRUMP: ...very early on. That dinner was arranged. I think he asked for the dinner.

	And he wanted to stay on as the FBI head. And I said I'll, you know, consider. We'll see what happens.

	But we had a very nice dinner. And at that time, he told you are not under investigation...

	HOLT: That was...

	TRUMP: ...which I knew anyway.

	HOLT: That was one meeting. When was the -- when was the other two?

	TRUMP: First of all, when you're under investigation, you're giving all sorts of documents and everything. I knew I wasn't under. And I heard it was stated at the committee -- at some committee level that I wasn't, number one.

	HOLT: So, that didn't come directly from him.

	TRUMP: Then, during a phone call, he said it. And then, during another phone call he said it.

	So, he said it once at dinner and then he said it twice during phone calls.



What exactly is going on here?

Trump says "on 3 separate occaisions" was told not under investigation

account differes from Comey

	FEINSTEIN: You describe two phone calls that you received from president trump. One on March 30th and one on April 11. He, quote, described the Russia investigation as a cloud that was impairing his ability, end quote, as president, and asked you, quote, to lift the cloud, end quote. How did you interpret that? What did you believe he wanted you to do?

	COMEY: I interpreted that as he was frustrated that the Russia investigation was taking up so much time and energy. I think he meant of the executive branch, but in the public square in general. It was making it difficult for him to focus on other priorities of his. But what he asked me was actually narrowing than that. I think what he meant by the cloud — and, again, I could be wrong — but the entire investigation is taking up oxygen and making it hard for me to focus on what I want to focus on. The ask was to get it out that I, the president, am not personally under investigation.

asks on March 30 to get out not under investigation


	SEN. SUSAN COLLINS: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Comey, let me begin by thanking you for your voluntary compliance with our request to appear before this committee and assist us in this very important investigation. I want first to ask you about your conversations with the president, three conversations in which you told him that he was not under investigation. The first was during your January 6th meeting, according to your testimony, in which it appears that you actually volunteered that assurance. Is that correct?

	COMEY: That's correct. 


	...COLLINS: Then on the January 27th dinner, you told the president that he should be careful about asking you to investigate because, “you might create a narrative that we are investigating him personally, which we weren't.” Again, were you limiting that statement to counterintelligence investigations, or more broadly, such as a criminal investigation?

	COMEY: I didn't modify the word investigation. It was, again, he was reacting strongly against the unverified material, saying I'm tempted to order you to investigate it. In the context of that, I said, sir, be careful about it. I might create a narrative we're investigating you personally. 


told him again on Jan 27th dinner


	COLLINS: There was the March 30th phone call with the president in which you reminded him that congressional leaders had been briefed that we were no personally — the FBI was not personally investigating president trump. And, again, was that statement to congressional leaders and to the president limited to counterintelligence investigations, or was it a broader statement? I'm trying to understand whether there was any kind of investigation of the president underway.

	COMEY: No. I'm sorry. If I misunderstood, I apologize. We briefed the congressional leadership about what Americans we had opened counterintelligence investigation cases on. We specifically said, the president is not one of those Americans. But there was no other investigation of the president that we were not mentioning at that time. The context was, counterintelligence, but I wasn't trying to hide some criminal investigation of the president. 


third on March 30 phone call


Trump lying?


Trump says told not under investigation at dinner and two phone calls, but the briefing wasn't a phone call.

Trump asked Comey if he was under investigation at one point

two points that make sense:

after finding out Flynn was under investigation on Jan 27

after counter-intel investigation goes public on March 30


reason for March 30 call seems to be the "cloud" over his presidency?

reason for dinner call perhaps to ask Comey if he wants to stay on, keep his job

I guess Trump learned Flynn under investigation 22nd, "learned" nothing illict 23rd, saw media reports saying Trump decided to keep Comey on the 24th, probably learned about WH interview with Flynn 25th, learns Yates concerned 26th, calls Comey the 27th


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	YATES: My recollection is that did not really come up much in the first meeting. It did come up in the second meeting, when Mr. McGahn called me back the next morning and asked the -- the morning after -- this is the morning of the 27th, now -- and asked me if I could come back to his office.


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	KING: With regard to the — several of these conversations, in his interview with Lester Holt on NBC, the president said, I had dinner with him. He wanted to have dinner because he wanted to stay on. Is this an accurate statement?

	COMEY: No, sir.

	KING: Did you in any way initiate that dinner?

	COMEY: No. He called me at my desk at lunchtime and asked me, was I free for dinner that night. Called himself. Said, can you come over for dinner tonight? I said, yes, sir. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/08/full-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-clapper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/
	This second meeting on the 27th occurred late in the afternoon, this is Friday the 27th


heh, when does Comey eat lunch?

So Yates calls back in the morning, schedules meeting, then Trump calls Comey, schdules dinner, Yates meeting late afternoon Comey dinner 6:30

McGahn wanted specifically to go over certain criminal stautes (plural), applicability, likelyhood of prosecution, concern if acting would hinder FBI interview

a bit like a fact-finding mission maybe? in preparation for the dinner?

anyway after Comey tells Trump he will give him "honest loyalty," (maybe biggest thing Trump lies about in public regarding all this), 

	WHITEHOUSE: And was that the phone call or is there a separate phone call?

	YATES: There was the phone call initially to let him know I needed to come see him.

	WHITEHOUSE: Yeah?

	YATES: Two meetings and then a phone call at the end to let him know...

	WHITEHOUSE: That the material was available if he wanted to see it.

	YATES: ... that the material was available. He had to call me back. He was not available then and I did not hear back from him until that afternoon of Monday the 30th.


gets a call to come see the evidence. A few hours later, Yates fired. "betrayed the Justice Department"

meanwhile Trump is holding his travel ban the entire time


------


https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/11/president_trumps_full_interview_with_lester_holt.html
HOLT: Did you know that he had had -- that received payments from the Russian government? That he had...

TRUMP: No.

HOLT: ...received payments from the Turkish government?

TRUMP: No, but Obama perhaps knew because he had clearance from the Obama administration. And his -- and -- and this is something they never want to report.

He had clearance from the Obama administration, the highest clearance you can have. And I think it's a very unfair thing that the media doesn't talk about that.

You know, you're talking about 2015. I don't know that I knew him in 2015.


Maybe important to keep in mind:

Trump doesn't actually care about Flynn

Trump only cares about himself.


Even defending Flynn would be just to make himself look better, make it look like he didn't make a mistake

took him off VP shortlist after Flynn flubbed abortion question

fired him when keeping him on made him look bad


why not fire him earlier? could have figured it would be an admission of guilt in a way, an admission that he did at least something wrong--was already in the news Flynn was under investigation.


http://www.businessinsider.com/trump-defending-mike-flynn-2017-5/#gen-flynn-is-a-wonderful-man-i-think-he-has-been-treated-very-very-unfairly-by-the-media-as-i-call-it-the-fake-media-in-many-cases-and-i-think-it-is-really-a-sad-thing-that-he-was-treated-so-badly-1

	"The concept of Russia with respect to us is a total phony story ... I just heard where General Flynn got his clearance from the Obama administration."


What is Trump even thinking here? "Flynn is a great guy--but can you believe Obama hired him?"

Pointing this out doesn't help Flynn--it helps himself.


so this *could* mean that Trump wouldn't actually care so much if Flynn is prosecuted for lying to the FBI, wouldn't be the biggest priority. Bigger priority is protecting himself.

Although he did say Flynn should ask for immunity to testify, "(in that this is a witch hunt)", for whatever reason.

One possible reason is that asking for immunity could protect him from the FBI investigation, block the FBI investigation "witch hunt" into him, and FBI's leverage over him (if Flynn were to testify on Trump).

But that's all speculation... And by then I think Trump had Sessions in? And obv. Yates fired by then.

Did Trump have the perception that Comey was unhappy that he kept-on Flynn? "I hope you can see your way to letting this go, let Flynn go"

------


https://www.adn.com/nation-world/2017/03/24/washington-post-reporter-trump-called-my-cellphone-to-say-the-health-care-bill-was-dead/
	 Washington Post reporter: Trump called my cellphone to say the health care bill was dead

	pencil Author: Robert Costa, The Washington Post 

why did Trump call Robert Costa?

http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/trumps-first-calls-health-care-defeat-were-ny-times-washington-post-fake-news-claims-988672

after calling them "fake news"


anyway what's seems to be going on is Trump thinks the Washington Post is the mouthpiece for Comey or something


------

so maybe something like this:

Trump inteprets WaPo report on "Flynn did nothing wrong" and "Trump retains Comey" as Comey communicating with him (since WaPo is the CIA "deep state" after all!"), and Trump thinks Comey is saying "see I decided Flynn did nothing wrong, I did something for you, so you should keep me on." Trump thinks transactionally anyway. So maybe Trump is happy with this.


Then Yates brings up that Flynn, in fact, did do something wrong. Trump doesn't like this. Sends back McGahn, to ask about possible criminal prosecution.

And meanwhile, Trump wants to talk to Comey, alone. Maybe (?) Trump learns that Flynn actually is in legal trouble after all, a problem for him.

So Flynn asks Comey: do you want to stay? I hope you stay. But I need loyalty. I thought we had cleared everything up with Flynn...


------

So did Trump actually care about FBI investigation into Flynn? he already had his "people in" at the DOJ. But of course possibility of special prosecutor, that kind of thing.

Why fire Comey? Best guess to stop leaks, "cloud" over him that the thought was what was stopping him from making his deals with Putin. Said firing Comey "relieved great pressure." So he wanted the anti-Russia pressure off I presume?


Does Trump care about Flynn legal jeoprady?

https://web.archive.org/web/20170216214656/https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/flynn-in-fbi-interview-denied-discussing-sanctions-with-russian-ambassador/2017/02/16/e3e1e16a-f3d5-11e6-8d72-263470bf0401_story.html?utm_term=.9111d79ea3c8

 	Flynn in FBI interview denied discussing sanctions with Russian ambassador 

	By Sari Horwitz and Adam Entous February 16 at 4:37 PM


This came after Trump saying he wants his "people in," and mentions Comey by name, also reports of a "reorganization of intelligence community"

So Trump could see this as blackmail of him? which would suggest he does care about Flynn legal jeopardy.

https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/832708293516632065?lang=en
	The FAKE NEWS media (failing @nytimes, @NBCNews, @ABC, @CBS, @CNN) is not my enemy, it is the enemy of the American People!
	1:48 PM - 17 Feb 2017 

can only guess what he's reacting too this time


http://www.businessinsider.com/trump-michael-flynn-russia-2017-2
	President Donald Trump said in a press conference on Thursday that Flynn was "just doing his job" when he called Kislyak in December.

could also blackmail him on that he lied and perhaps knew more than he let on

but iirc Trump never brought up Flynn with Comey after this, it was just at the Feb 14th conference.


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/02/michael-flynn-resign-democrats-briefing-235085
	Democrats fear Trump team will destroy Flynn documents

	By Heather Caygle

	02/16/2017 10:52 AM EST

	Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee sent a letter to White House lawyers Thursday demanding confirmation that all records related to communications between President Donald Trump's associates and Russia are preserved. 

this sent out morning of the 16th, before presser I think?


http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/320052-trump-was-fully-briefed-on-content-of-flynns-calls-with-russian
	"The president was, in fact, fully briefed on the content of those conversations that Gen. Michael Flynn had with the Russian ambassador, Sergey Kislyak, by people who would know what the content of those phone conversations was,” Fox News chief White House correspondent John Roberts told Bill O’Reilly on Thursday night.

Irrelavant?

	“And under repeated questioning during an investigation conducted by the White House counsel’s office, Gen. Flynn, I'm told, had a full recollection of what he talked about with the Russian ambassador.”

interesting


http://www.salon.com/2017/02/17/trump-gets-snubbed-by-national-security-pick-choice-to-replace-michael-flynn-turns-down-offer/
	Sources familiar with the former deputy commander at Central Command  — who served on the National Security Council during the George W Bush administration — told the Times that Harward was concerned about whether the top advisers around Trump would allow him to install his own staff on the NSC. Harward demanded his own team, and the White House resisted, CBS News confirmed.


interesting--relevant to Trump's later "promise" to let McMaster have his on staff? but not relevant probably 


http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/politics/2017/02/was_trump_warned_that_michael_flynn_misled_the_fbi.html
	Intelligence and FBI officials had seen a secret report on the intercepts of the call. They knew Flynn had misled Pence and Spicer. They wanted to warn the White House. They had three concerns. One was that Flynn’s offer to review the sanctions might have violated the Logan Act, an old law that prohibits private citizens (which Flynn was at the time) from meddling in diplomacy. A second concern was that Russia could blackmail Flynn, since it knew the story he had told Pence was false. A third concern was that Pence needed to know he was being deceived.

	But that wasn’t enough for FBI Director James Comey. According to a Washington Post report from Tuesday, Comey told Yates, CIA Director John Brennan, and Director of National Intelligence James Clapper that before they alerted the White House, they needed something more:

		On Obama’s last full day in office, Jan. 19, Clapper and Brennan made the case to Comey for informing the Trump team about Flynn. The FBI director pushed back primarily on the grounds that notifying the new administration could complicate the agency’s investigation. The bureau, Comey also insisted, shouldn’t be “the truth police,” according to an official familiar with his thinking at the time. “In other words, if there’s not a violation of law here, it’s not our job to go and tell the vice president that he’s been lied to.”

		In the days following Trump’s inauguration, FBI agents interviewed Flynn about his calls with Kislyak. That removed the basis for Comey’s earlier objection to notifying the White House, current and former officials said. It is unclear whether Flynn gave the agents an accurate account of his calls with Kislyak. If not, officials said he could find himself in serious legal jeopardy.

	The implication of these two paragraphs seems clear: The FBI interviewed Flynn on Jan. 24 to meet Comey’s standard. The interview produced the requisite violation of the law. The Post’s Thursday update indicates that the violation was Flynn’s false denial. The Post notes that Flynn “followed his denial to the FBI by saying he couldn’t recall all of the conversation,” and a CNN report posted Friday morning says that after the agents “challenged” Flynn, he said he didn’t remember. The FBI decided the interview wasn’t enough of a basis to prosecute Flynn. But according to both CNN and the Post, it was enough to satisfy Comey that Yates could warn the White House.


Did she really need Comey's permission? Thing is she intentionally didn't tell McGahn about how Flynn did on interview, at least at the first meeting.

	It’s not clear what Yates told McGahn, if anything, about the FBI interview. Maybe, to protect the Flynn investigation, she didn’t mention it. But it would be odd to delay warning the White House for lack of a crime, then send agents to interview Flynn to produce that crime, and then not mention or at least allude to that crime in the warning. 

not what Yate's said--Comey (I think?) was worried instead warning him would interfere with the FBI investigation. But McGahn did suspect legal trouble.

	If McGahn knew or suspected that the FBI had interviewed Flynn, the next question is what McGahn told Trump. According to Spicer’s account, McGahn briefed Trump and his senior advisers “immediately” (not including Pence, apparently) and, at Trump’s direction, “undertook an extensive review” that included studying “materials” and interrogating Flynn “on several occasions based on information that was provided.” Spicer acknowledged that as part of this process, there was “communication between the Department of Justice and the White House Counsel’s Office.” But he refused to say what that entailed. The bottom line, said Spicer, was that Trump concluded “Gen. Flynn did not do anything wrong, and the White House Counsel’s review corroborated that.”

right, forgot they conducted an "investigation," apparently about what Trump said to Kislyak, and not about him lying to the FBI...


So Trump could be waiting for that "investigation" to complete, then it concludes "oh he did nothing wrong."

But I don't remember Trump ever citing an investigation, he cited media reports.

	At his press conference Thursday, Trump said nothing he had heard from McGahn made him think Flynn was guilty of more than misleading Pence. Trump recalled that the “information” had come from Yates, the acting attorney general, and that “I was a little surprised, because I said, ‘Doesn’t sound like he did anything wrong.’ ” Trump was asked whether the White House had looked at transcripts of the intercepts or other evidence, but he didn’t answer. When a reporter asked why Trump had kept Pence in the dark about McGahn’s information for nearly two weeks, Trump replied: “Because when I looked at the information, I said, ‘I don’t think he [Flynn] did anything wrong.’ ”

Ok, he cited "looking at the information" as well. But was also "surprised" when warned by Yates, supposedly because of the Washington post report saying Flynn "did nothing wrong."

	Somewhere in this chain of events, something went horribly wrong. One possibility is that Yates, having secured Comey’s approval to brief McGahn based on Flynn’s false statements to the FBI agents, didn’t mention those statements to McGahn. Another possibility is that McGahn, having received at least a strong signal from Yates that Flynn had misled the FBI, didn’t tell Trump. A third possibility is that McGahn told Trump, and Trump didn’t care. One of these scenarios must be true. To find out, we need to put these people, and perhaps those around them, under oath.


true

so no way of knowing if Trump knew Flynn lied to the FBI or not, but maybe that doesn't matter.

Trump, it seems pretty sure I think, knew Flynn was in legal jeopardy. By Yates, McGahn said "we were concerned" about intervening in FBI investigation, wanted to know about criminal statues. Then launched an investigation, which apparently concluded "nothing wrong."

Problem is the "investigation" they would have launched happened after Trump fired Yates... she never heard back from McGahn.

So it's:
	- Trump selectively hears from media that "Flynn did nothing wrong"
	- hears from Yates that oh, maybe he did
	- asks Comey for "loyalty"
	- Yates still wants to show McGahn the "underlying information" (so perhaps she's not "loyal" like Trump I guess thinks Comey is)
	- Trump fires Yates.


------

http://www.newsweek.com/michael-dorf-why-flynn-was-fired-key-russia-plot-557519
	Michael Dorf: Why Flynn Was Fired Is the Key to the Russia Plot


maybe he fired Flynn because he thought Comey wanted him to?

or, because Pence confronted him?


------

so how does Jan 27 dinner tie in to all this? why did Trump want Comey's "loyalty?"

said he heard nice things about him, although Trump always butters people up

seems like Trump saw "comey wants to stay" and "Flynn did nothing wrong" and wanted to make a deal?


http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/07/politics/james-comey-memos-testimony/index.html
	The President began by asking me whether I wanted to stay on as FBI Director, which I found strange because he had already told me twice in earlier conversations that he hoped I would stay, and I had assured him that I intended to. He said that lots of people wanted my job and, given the abuse I had taken during the previous year, he would understand if I wanted to walk away.


giving Comey an opportunity to leave?

	I replied that I loved my work and intended to stay and serve out my ten-year term as Director. And then, because the set-up made me uneasy, I added that I was not "reliable" in the way politicians use that word, but he could always count on me to tell him the truth. I added that I was not on anybody's side politically and could not be counted on in the traditional political sense, a stance I said was in his best interest as the President.


but Comey warns: not "loyal" like you might think...

	A few moments later, the President said, "I need loyalty, I expect loyalty." I didn't move, speak, or change my facial expression in any way during the awkward silence that followed. We simply looked at each other in silence. The conversation then moved on, but he returned to the subject near the end of our dinner. At one point, I explained why it was so important that the FBI and the Department of Justice be independent of the White House. I said it was a paradox: Throughout history, some Presidents have decided that because "problems" come from Justice, they should try to hold the Department close. But blurring those boundaries ultimately makes the problems worse by undermining public trust in the institutions and their work.


But Trump "expects loyalty," and that's a direct quote that Trump denies...


what else do they discuss? missing anything?

	Near the end of our dinner, the President returned to the subject of my job, saying he was very glad I wanted to stay, adding that he had heard great things about me from Jim Mattis, Jeff Sessions, and many others. He then said, "I need loyalty." I replied, "You will always get honesty from me." He paused and then said, "That's what I want, honest loyalty." I paused, and then said, "You will get that from me." As I wrote in the memo I created immediately after the dinner, it is possible we understood the phrase "honest loyalty" differently, but I decided it wouldn't be productive to push it further. The term -- honest loyalty -- had helped end a very awkward conversation and my explanations had made clear what he should expect.


whatever happened, Trump brings up job again, then brings up loyalty right after. "I need loyalty."

"possible understood the phrase 'honest loyalty'" differently.

But with an exchange like that, wouldn't be a stretch for Trump to assume he has Comey's 'loyalty'... for now

Comey's excuse is that he just wanted to end an awkward conversation

But did he make clear after that how the FBI relationship is supposed to work?


	During the dinner, the President returned to the salacious material I had briefed him about on January 6, and, as he had done previously, expressed his disgust for the allegations and strongly denied them. He said he was considering ordering me to investigate the alleged incident to prove it didn't happen. I replied that he should give that careful thought because it might create a narrative that we were investigating him personally, which we weren't, and because it was very difficult to prove a negative. He said he would think about it and asked me to think about it.

so, in the middle of the "loyalty" asks, Trump "considering" ordering Comey to investigate dossier claims. Asks him to "think about it."


what is significance of this? Trump thinks Comey leaked the dossier, doesn't he?

What else did they talk about? anything about Flynn?


------

https://medium.com/@JasonTLouis/odd-timing-of-information-regarding-lieutenant-general-michael-flynn-and-sally-yates-5afa2cdc06fb


someone else noticing the odd timing of the media reports and Yates account


so Yates didn't get a readout until the 25th... was Flynn interveiwed in the evening?


Would be interesting if the interview came after the Jan 24th report that Flynn did nothing wrong, which was on moring of the 24th, 10:00 AM


another thing... was there even a criminal investigation of Flynn at that time? Flynn didn't have a lawyer present...


which would suggest that Flynn wasn't providing information about himself, maybe someone else...
