http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/07/24/donald-trump-afghanistan-215412
	The Trump White House’s War Within

	His national security team wants a stepped-up fight in Afghanistan. There's just one problem: A president who doesn't want to be there.

	By SUSAN B. GLASSER

	July 24, 2017 


Glasser rights some big expose, apparently to divide Trump and McMaster?

	Last week, President Donald Trump’s senior Cabinet officials and top national security advisers met for a contentious meeting to finally agree on a new strategy for America’s longest war. After months of wrangling, they would ask Trump for a modest troop increase and a more intense commitment to the seemingly endless struggle in Afghanistan.

	But the session of the National Security Council Principals Committee, described by two sources briefed on it as a “s*** show” that featured what a third source, a senior White House official, confirmed was a heated debate where “words were exchanged,” proved no more successful than months’ worth of previous Afghan policy debates. 


blame leaks for the sources of this article on McMaster, maybe?


	Trump refused to sign off on the plan they approved, the sources said, instead sending it back to his national security team demanding more work. And on Tuesday, the president made clear just how dissatisfied he was. In what were pretty much his first public comments on Afghanistan during his six months in office, he told reporters before a White House lunch, “I want to find out why we’ve been there for 17 years.” On Thursday, headed into a Pentagon meeting, he was similarly cagey. Asked about more troops for Afghanistan, he replied only, “We’ll see.”


directly quoting Trump, so source would need to be one of his advisors? that or WH is bugged.


	McMaster has made a major policy review of America’s long, failed war there his personal mission, according to the sources, and he pushed hard to get a new strategy that would include the relatively modest troop increases and a commitment to at least another four-year timeline approved in advance of Trump’s May summit with NATO allies.

	But instead, the sources said, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson teamed up with Mattis to block McMaster’s initial version, which they believed Trump and political advisers wary of the war, notably chief strategist Steve Bannon, would not support without clearer markers of success. “Tillerson says, ‘I’m not selling this to the president,’” a senior administration official who was present recalled. “They believed McMaster was not reading the West Wing very well,” added another former senior U.S. official briefed on the process.


Make it sound like McMaster is upset that his policy didn't win over other advisors


	...Hawks like Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona, until his recent health troubles, had been urging the administration to commit to seeking an outright victory in Afghanistan, but Miller says it’s simply not doable.


Seems defeatist? a kindof dark insult at McCain


	And maybe that’s because McMaster and his allies simply don’t have persuasive arguments to offer. The U.S. has tried bombing the Taliban to smithereens; it’s tried negotiating; it’s tried rooting out corruption and boosting the government; it’s tried cracking down on the heroin trade that fuels the insurgents and replacing poppy plants with other crops; it’s tried sending tens of thousands more troops—only to end up with the same frustrating stalemate. “They don’t have any fancy new tricks up their sleeve,” she says. “There aren’t any new tools to be used to suddenly turn around the conflict in Afghanistan.”


They didn't try spies, infiltration?

	...Given that, it’s a hard case, Miller acknowledges, to do what McMaster has been trying: “to say to this new president … that your only option is that now you need to be the third president in a row to own this war, that’s a very politically difficult thing to do.”


Glasser want U.S. out of Afghanistan?


	...Regardless of what was happening back in Washington, the ending of the surge—U.S. troop presence is now back to around 9,000—has led to the predicted worsening of the security situation in Afghanistan and resurgence of the Taliban, along with a scramble to fill the vacuum by other regional players there including not only Pakistan and India but also Russia and China.


frame it as a power struggle among competing countries
