
So Pence may or may not have given a monologue to win over Trump (according to NY times story) during a serreptitious meeting between Trump and Pence due to mechanical problems in Trump's plane where he happened to be in Indiana.

This is 3 days before Trump's final decision.

Then a terrorist attack in France suddenly delays Trump to give him "more time," and he seems indecisive.

But his decision to pick Pence "leaks" and Trump goes with it.


Actually confusing-- Miller Time article says Trump announced Pence on twitter on Friday?

------

http://www.cnn.com/2016/07/15/politics/donald-trump-mike-pence-decision-timeline/

Says Trump was swayed by his children and Manafort to pick Pence


	Trump had dined with Pence the night before, and then because of a popped tire on his plane, was captive in Indianapolis. That gave Pence, and more importantly Trump's children and his advisers, an extra day to convince him.

	As late as Tuesday, advisers say, Trump had been leaning toward Christie, his longtime friend and now trusted adviser. Weeks earlier, Trump's children had been leaning toward Newt Gingrich, several sources said, dazzled by the former House speaker's charm and encyclopedic knowledge of politics. 


	...As CNN and other news outlets reported that all signs pointed to Pence, the candidate's seeming indecision began playing out in full public view in a humiliating fashion for Pence.


http://www.nbcchicago.com/news/local/Trump-Forced-to-Stay-Overnight-in-Indianapolis-Due-to-Plane-Issues-386690091.html

Tuesday July 12th, Trump unexpectedly forced to stay overnight in Indiana due to a mechanical issue on his plane




	Trump visited the Hoosier state Tuesday to attend a rally alongside Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, who is being vetted as the presumptive nominee's potential VP pick.

	Trump and his family met with Pence at the Governor’s Mansion Wednesday, further fueling speculation that the candidate may announce the governor as his running mate. 

	During a press conference after their meeting Wednesday, Pence said he’s “honored” and “humbled” to be considered for the role.

	“The conversations we’ve had between two families are something Karen and I will cherish the rest of our lives, whatever the outcome,” Pence said.


Trump was expected to announce his VP pick July 15th


Gingrich and Christie also there.


But Trump delayed his announcement for a running-mate due to a terrorist attack in France (damn...)


------

http://www.cnn.com/2016/07/15/politics/donald-trump-mike-pence-decision-timeline/
	Trump kept calling Manafort and his son-in-law until midnight, asking whether he could reverse his decision. He was told he could not.


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/17/us/politics/donald-trump-mike-pence.html?_r=0
	The families were chatting politely over coffee when Mr. Pence, a mild-mannered Midwesterner, delivered an uncharacteristically impassioned monologue, according to people with direct knowledge of his remarks, who spoke on the condition of anonymity about the meeting.

	With the vice presidency potentially hanging in the balance, Mr. Pence described his personal distaste for Hillary Clinton and her husband, the former president, and spoke of feeling disgusted at what he called the corruption of the 1990s.


Says Kushner wanted Pence too


	Mr. Trump declared to Mr. Pence that he would never take back a wife who had been unfaithful, according to the account of a witness. A second person briefed on the meeting described it as an awkward encounter for the strait-laced Mr. Pence.


so conv awkward (as reported), but Pence delivers his monolouge. So he wanted it


	Indeed, when emissaries from the Trump campaign first reached out early this month to gauge Mr. Pence’s interest in the vice presidency, the governor told his political allies that he would meet with Mr. Trump — but only as a courtesy.

	Close advisers to Mr. Trump, including Paul Manafort, his campaign chairman, and Ms. Conway, the pollster for both men, were keen on the governor. Mr. Pence was less entranced by the idea.


Is this true? they keep trying to blame it on Manafort and Kushner.

Where are they getting these reports from? who is their source?


Article makes it sound like Trump was hitting on Pence's daughter


	And the other contenders had problems. The scandal over the shutdown of the George Washington Bridge was potentially hobbling to Mr. Christie; Mr. Gingrich, a self-described “pirate,” had a marital history equally colorful to Mr. Trump’s; Senator Joni Ernst of Iowa was inexperienced and evoked unflattering comparisons to Sarah Palin; Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee had a rough audition with Mr. Trump; and Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama would face scrutiny of his record on race.

	On Tuesday, after Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence campaigned together, and Mr. Trump’s plane breakdown left him stranded in Indiana, the unlikely partners had an impromptu dinner at the Capital Grille.

	And at some point during the evening, Mr. Trump asked Mr. Pence if he would say yes, were Mr. Trump to offer him the No. 2 slot.

	“In a heartbeat,” Mr. Pence replied.


http://time.com/4409330/donald-trump-mike-pence-vice-president-2/
	All the way to the end, each of the finalists for the role of Donald Trump's running mate believed that history beckoned.

	Chris Christie's allies were so sure the New Jersey governor was the pick that they encouraged his former New Hampshire state director to quit a lucrative consulting job to join the Trump campaign.

	Newt Gingrich thought things were drifting his way too, thanks to a lobbying push led by powerful conservative stalwarts, including billionaire casino magnate Sheldon Adelson, who suggested he would lavish more cash on Trump's campaign if the former House Speaker was on the ticket.

	Meanwhile, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence was left in suspense in his New York hotel room Thursday night, days after allies became convinced that Trump had zeroed in on the Hoosier, and hours after the choice began leaking widely.

	Trump's vice-presidential sweepstakes, which finally wrapped up with a Friday announcement via Twitter that Pence was the pick, was classic Trump in certain ways. The showman milked the moment to maximize publicity, squeezing every last drop of suspense out of a selection process that allies believed was all but over early in the week. It was also characteristically haphazard, marked by changes of direction, muddled communication and missed opportunities. His team didn't prepare a new web page, buy search ads or update social-media accounts to reflect the partnership.


------


http://time.com/4409330/donald-trump-mike-pence-vice-president-2/
	Trump and Pence had no relationship prior to the vetting process, but their chemistry passed an early test at a joint campaign rally. Then Trump invited Pence and his wife to his New Jersey golf club over the July 4 holiday weekend. By Monday, with just a week until the Republican convention kicks off in Cleveland, Trump's inner circle believed the candidate was zeroing in on Pence.

	But a day later, Trump's top political aides were growing nervous, according to sources in the campaign and the Republican National Committee. Gingrich had launched an aggressive push for the job. The former House Speaker enlisted a retinue of friends, from evangelical leaders to high-dollar donors, to pitch his candidacy. One of the most persuasive messengers came from within his own family, according to two people familiar with the deliberations. Jared Kushner, the husband of Trump's daughter Ivanka, has become a central figure in his father-in-law's campaign. An orthodox Jew who helped Trump re-orient his foreign policy to emphasize ties with Israel, Kushner serves as one of the campaign's unofficial liaison to Adelson, a foreign policy hawk who lavishes money on pro-Israel causes.

	Back in May, during a meeting at the St. Regis Hotel in New York, Adelson told Trump he was willing to contribute substantially to the presumptive Republican nominee's campaign. But no money has been spent yet, in part because a network of pro-Trump super PACs declined to stand aside. Adelson didn’t want to fork over cash that would duplicate those efforts, according to a source close to the casino magnate. During Trump's deliberations over the vice-presidential pick, Adelson's allies made clear that he would open the spigot if Gingrich—on whose 2012 presidential campaign Adelson dropped more than $20 million—was the pick, the Adelson ally said.


Interesting, so this is saying a Kushner associate was going all-out for Gingrich


	Gingrich’s glibness wore thin. "Newt is the smartest guy in the world. Just ask him," says the Trump ally. "He has a tendency to talk down to people above him. That hurt him." For three days starting Monday, Trump held a series of phone calls with evangelical leaders to solicit input on whether Gingrich or Pence would be a better pick.

hah! where did he get that idea?


	On Thursday morning at 8 a.m., Pence convened a meeting of political allies in Indianapolis to discuss political logistics should Trump tap him for the ticket. Pence, who was in the midst of a hard-fought re-election campaign, was facing a noon deadline on Friday to withdraw from the race. The Indiana governor had still not been informed of Trump's decision, but he wanted to prepare his aides to get his name off the ballot in time if necessary.

	And then he waited, like everyone else. Top national Republicans were being informed by around noon that Pence was the pick. The Indiana governor hopped a plane to New York for the ticket's planned unveiling Friday morning. But neither Gingrich nor Christie had been informed. And Trump, who was out raising money on the West Coast, was irked as the trickle of leaks became a flood, according to two people familiar with the discussions.


So Trump "irked" by leaks.

Did Trump really pick Pence?


	A planned public roll-out Friday morning in Manhattan was scrapped Thursday evening, in deference to the terrorist attack on the French Riviera. On Thursday night, Trump told Fox News that he still hadn't made his "final, final" decision." The state of limbo led some Republicans to suspect that Trump's confidence in his choice was wavering. One person close to Trump said the candidate was still working the phones late Thursday night, questioning the pick—not least because of the leaks emanating from Pence-world, which he felt were backing him into a corner. The Trump campaign denied these reports.


So Trump unsure, leaks "backed him into a corner"


	The only question left was whether Trump was quite as happy with the new partnership. When the ticket finally debuted together Saturday morning in Midtown Manhattan, he made a game attempt to move past the chaotic process. "Mike Pence," he assured the crowd, "was my first choice." 


http://time.com/4780973/donald-trump-russia-leaks-hr-mcmaster/

Miller sounds legit


Who leaked the Pence Trump VP pick?


------

http://time.com/4406477/donald-trump-mike-pence-running-mate-vice-president/
	Campaign chairman Paul Manafort led a cadre of allies, including senior Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway, in pushing for Pence, whom Trump did not know nearly as well as the other members of his vice-presidential short list, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie.

Is this true? Manafort and Conway led charge for Pence?

Altman is suspicious?
