https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/kremlin-denies-knowing-of-donald-trump-jr-meeting-with-russian-lawyer-during-2016-campaign/2017/07/10/c2bfee34-6566-11e7-a1d7-9a32c91c6f40_story.html
	By Rosalind S. Helderman, Tom Hamburger and Greg Miller July 10 at 8:31 PM

	The White House on Monday was forced to shift from denying contact between the Trump campaign and Russia to defending a meeting that President Trump’s eldest son had in the midst of the presidential race with a Russian lawyer purportedly offering damaging information about Hillary Clinton. 

	The White House sought to play down the significance of that encounter even as new details emerged indicating that it had been arranged at the behest of a Russian family that has ties to the Kremlin and a history of pursuing business deals with President Trump — including preliminary plans for a Trump Tower in Moscow.


ties back into mob connections?

	...The latest information centers on Donald Trump Jr., whose concession this week that he took part in the June 9, 2016, meeting contradicted statements he had made in recent months. It comes as investigators in Congress and the special counsel’s office probe the Trump campaign’s interactions with Russia. 


lied about it?


	...She appeared to be referring to updated federal disclosures filed by Trump’s son-in-law and close adviser, Jared Kushner, acknowledging that he had attended the meeting with Veselnitskaya in Trump Tower. 


did Kushner do this on purpose? something odd going on with him


	Asked whether the president was concerned about the encounter, Sanders said no and described such meetings as routine occurrences during campaigns. “Don Jr. didn’t collude with anybody to influence the election,” she said.


If Don Jr. was recruited by Russian intelligence services and was working on Trump's campaign, would that be collusion?


	...At first he said the talk centered on policies restricting the ability of U.S. families to adopt Russian children. Then, on Sunday, he issued a statement acknowledging that the premise of the meeting was that Veselnitskaya claimed to have potentially damaging information about Clinton.


why is he doing this? it seems odd

	Trump Jr. said that Veselnitskaya failed to deliver and that “it quickly became clear that she had no meaningful information.” But his participation on those terms, as well as the attendance of Kushner and then-Trump campaign aide Paul Manafort, amount to fresh evidence that the Trump campaign was willing to consider accepting help from a Russian source tarnishing Clinton.


right so they are saying maybe nothing happened in the meeting, but it shows intent... willingness to collude with the Russians


	Emails hacked from the Democratic National Committee were posted online a few weeks after the meeting. U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia orchestrated the hacks with the intention of helping to elect Trump.


wording making a wink and a nod they arranged for the emails to be released in this meeting

except before wasn't it reported that she offered information on Clinton campaign connections to Russia?


	The Trump Tower meeting drew the attention Monday of members of the Senate Intelligence Committee. Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) told reporters that the panel “needs to interview” Trump Jr. and others who attended the meeting. Her point was echoed later in the day by the senior Democrat on that committee, Sen. Mark R. Warner (Va.). “This is the first time the public has seen clear evidence that senior-level officials of the Trump campaign met with potentially an agent of a foreign government to try to obtain information that would discredit Hillary Clinton,” he said. “I think that’s pretty significant.”


but what about Trump Jr. potentially being an agent of the Russian government? or Mark Warner?


	...In a new statement, Goldstone confirmed what Trump Jr. said Sunday: that he enticed the then-candidate’s son by indicating that Veselnitskaya could provide damaging information about Democrats.


so both Goldstone and Trump Jr. are saying this, any other source? neither are trustworthy


	...David Filipov and Natalya Abbakumova in Moscow and Philip Rucker, Ashley Parker and Brian Murphy in Washington contributed to this report.


	...But he has also carved out an identity independent of his father. Growing up, he spent summers hunting with his grandmother in what was then Czechoslovakia. He remains an avid hunter, as comfortable in the halls of a National Rifle Association convention as with the Manhattanites with whom his father surrounded himself in business.


so almost mentions his trips to the Soviet Union, or at least implies

was with Soviets 1948-1989

Trump Jr. was there when?

differences  between "sattelite state" of Soviet Union and on paper "Soviet Union?"

so maybe you can't actually say visited Soviets, although maybe can say StB was Soviet intelligence


	...In October 2016, just weeks before his father’s election, Trump Jr. delivered a paid speech in Paris to a group whose leaders are close to Russia.

	The speech was in front of the Center of Political and Foreign Affairs, an advocacy group founded by a French businessman and his partner who are known in France to work closely with Russian business interests. 

	...In an interview with the New York Times in March, Trump Jr. denied participating in any campaign-related meetings with Russian nationals.

	“Did I meet with people that were Russian? I’m sure, I’m sure I did,” he said. “But none that were set up. None that I can think of at the moment. And certainly none that I was representing the campaign in any way, shape or form.”


Donny Boy taking paid speeches with Russians? just like Bill Clinton! who also acts like a Russian agent


------


why is nobody reporting on this adding that Trump Jr's trips to the Soviet Union were closely watched by Soviet intelligence services?


surely that is helpful context, I think?


------


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/10/us/politics/donald-trump-jr-russia-email-candidacy.html
	Trump Jr. Was Told in Email of Russian Effort to Aid Campaign

	By MATT APUZZO, JO BECKER, ADAM GOLDMAN and MAGGIE HABERMAN JULY 10, 2017 


	WASHINGTON — Before arranging a meeting with a Kremlin-connected Russian lawyer he believed would offer him compromising information about Hillary Clinton, Donald Trump Jr. was informed in an email that the material was part of a Russian government effort to aid his father’s candidacy, according to three people with knowledge of the email.


an email saying it was part of a Russian plot to help Trump emerges, says Appuzzo, Becker, Goldman and Haberman

	...Mr. Goldstone’s message, as described to The New York Times by the three people, indicates that the Russian government was the source of the potentially damaging information. It does not elaborate on the wider effort by Moscow to help the Trump campaign.


but why the fuck would you send an email saying that


	...“He said, ‘I’m told she has information about illegal campaign contributions to the D.N.C.,’” Mr. Goldstone recalled, referring to the Democratic National Committee. He said he then emailed Donald Trump Jr., outlining what the lawyer purported to have.

	But Mr. Goldstone, who wrote the email over a year ago, denied any knowledge of involvement by the Russian government in the matter, saying that never dawned on him. “Never, never ever,” he said. Later, after the email was described to The Times, efforts to reach him for further comment were unsuccessful.


Goldstone helping make the whole thing look more sketchy, along with Trump Jr.


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-trump-campaigns-attempted-collusion/2017/07/10/7841c090-65b0-11e7-8eb5-cbccc2e7bfbf_story.html


WaPo editorial board says Trump campaign attempted collusion


what is evidence? statements of Trump Jr., Goldstone, email, what else?


	...the younger Mr. Trump admitted that he attended because he had been promised damaging material about the Hillary Clinton campaign. The Times further reported Monday night that he was informed that any such material "was part of a Russian government effort to aid his father's candidacy."


sounds a little fishy though? Trump Jr. gets an email saying "hello this meeting is for the Russian government to help your campain" and Donny Boy goes "ok"?


	It will be up to federal prosecutors to determine whether federal conspiracy laws or election laws barring campaigns from soliciting help from foreigners have been implicated.


what would you need to prove? that Trump Jr. understood the lawyer to bee an agent of the Russian government? agreed to accept help?


------


http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/trump-meeting-raises-question-collusion-even-crime-n781571
	 But even if the lawyer was somehow representing Russia, and even if she passed on national security information, legal practitioners told NBC News that it would be difficult to see a prosecutable case.

	That has become a talking point among right-wing pundits, but it's a view also shared by Democrats who are legal experts.

	"I just don't see an easy crime to prove here," said Amy Jeffress, a former top Justice Department national security lawyer in the Obama administration. "Collusion is wrong, but I'm not sure it's a crime." 

	...Providing secrets to a foreign government is espionage, and representing one for money without registering might violate the Foreign Agents Registration Act, he said. But accepting information from a foreign government that might be helpful to your campaign is not illegal, he added. 


interesting

 	...The hurdles to prosecuting collusion may be why the FBI is looking hard at the finances of various Trump aides, one legal expert said. Collusion may not be illegal, but money laundering, tax evasion, bank fraud and wire fraud certainly are.


Collusion maybe not illegal, but money laundering is


	Legal experts say it may be more likely that crimes could have been committed in covering up alleged collusion. It is illegal to lie to the FBI and to omit material information from security clearance forms, for example. 


and coverups


also another question: if not illegal, should it be?

they made colluding with a corporation for your election legal, but foreign governments can just use shell companies


and if influencing an election to isntall a stooge is an act of war, is aiding with that treason?
