For the past year or so, there's been a sustained Russian propaganda campaign to paint the "elite press" as tools of the CIA, especially the Washington Post:


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...thefreethoughtporject.com ... zerohedge.com ... infowars.com ... hangthebankers.com ... mintpressnews.com ... washingtonsblog.com...


http://thefreethoughtproject.com/ulfkotte-cia-media-dead/
	Journalist Who Blew the Whistle on CIA Media Control Drops Dead at 56

	“I’m going to stand up and say it is not right what I have done in the past, to manipulate people, to make propaganda against Russia and it is not right what my colleagues do and have done in the past, because they are bribed, to betray the people not only in Germany all over Europe.”

	...As Ulfkotte became increasingly upset at news reports sourced from false government information, he began publishing a magazine called Whistleblower, which reports on topics not covered by the German media. He also wrote multiple books on the subject during the 2000s.

	Ulfkotte is best known to international viewers from select appearances on Russia Today, specifically an October 2014 interview about his book ‘Bought Journalists’, in which he discussed the epidemic of propaganda in mainstream media news reports and the increased anti-Russia sentiment being generated. He also discussed the heavy influence on international news from American, Israeli and other western intelligence agencies.

	...His comments were one of the earlier warnings about anti-Russia propaganda which came before the recent escalation which features American media claiming Russian officials influenced the 2016 US election in favor of Donald Trump.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-02-28/newly-declassified-documents-show-senior-cia-agent-and-deputy-director-directorate-i 
	A CIA operative told Washington Post owner Philip Graham … in a conversation about the willingness of journalists to peddle CIA propaganda and cover stories:

		You could get a journalist cheaper than a good call girl, for a couple hundred dollars a month.


	...In many instances, CIA documents show, journalists were engaged to perform tasks for the CIA with the consent of the managements of America’s leading news organizations.

	...An expert on propaganda testified under oath during trial that the CIA now employs THOUSANDS of reporters and OWNS its own media organizations. Whether or not his estimate is accurate, it is clear that many prominent reporters still report to the CIA.


https://www.infowars.com/washington-post-cia-connections-destroy-posts-election-hack-claim/
	Washington Post-CIA Connections Destroy Post’s “election hack” Claim
	Who exactly is the fake news outlet?

	...You might remember the Washington Post’s role in defaming and destroying Gary Webb, who, in 1996, published a series of articles in the Mercury News about the CIA seeding black Los Angeles neighborhoods with crack cocaine. The Post basically asked the CIA whether the charge was true, and when the Agency denied it, the Post attacked Webb as a “fake news” reporter. The same Washington Post is now leading the campaign to tie the Russian government to Hillary Clinton’s defeat. And the Post, once again, is using unproven statements from the CIA to back up their claim.

	I could go on and on about the Post and its historic CIA ties. But now, right now, the owner of the Post is Jeff Bezos, who also owns Amazon. And Amazon has a $600 million contract to provide the CIA cloud computing services (more here and here).

	Boom.


http://www.hangthebankers.com/washington-post-cia-spread-fake-news/
	Washington Post partners with CIA to spread fake news

	...You may recall that the Washington Post was a main player in launching stories about fake news sites after the presidential election.

	One of the biggest fake news outlets in the world (cough, the Washington Post) took the lead in “exposing fake news.”


http://www.mintpressnews.com/washington-post-called-disclosing-bezosamazon-600m-cia-contract-reporting-agency/176985/
	Activists Continue To Push Washington Post To Disclose Its CIA Connection

	But Executive Editor Martin Baron said the newspaper doesn’t need to routinely inform readers of the CIA-Amazon-Bezos ties when reporting on the CIA. 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-05-15/wapo-trump-revealed-highly-classified-information-meeting-russians-pentagon-denies
	WaPo: Trump Revealed "Highly Classified Information" In Meeting With Russians, White House Denies

	As expected, immediately after Wapo published their latest provocative Trump story, the mainstream media echo chamber went into full effect

	...Meanwhile, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, National Security Advisor H.R. McMaster and Deputy National Security Advisor for Strategy Dina Powell, all of whom were in the room during the meeting in question, all issued statements denying that classified information was divulged


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-12-20/cia-washington-post-and-russia-what-youre-not-being-told
	The CIA, Washington Post, And Russia: What You're Not Being Told

	According to an unsubstantiated article by the Washington Post, anonymous CIA officials have confirmed that the Russian government hacked the United States election to favor Donald Trump. Though it’s entirely possible the Russian government attempted to influence the election, the Post has been widely criticized — for the second time in a month — for its failure to follow basic journalistic practices. Nevertheless, the narrative is sticking.

	But the outlet’s behind-the-scenes relationship with the CIA is nothing new.


https://www.counterpunch.org/2016/11/30/the-cia-and-the-press-when-the-washington-post-ran-the-cias-propaganda-network/
	The CIA and the Press: When the Washington Post Ran the CIA’s Propaganda Network


http://www.washingtonsblog.com/2016/12/white-house-cia-ny-times-washington-post-cbs-etc-fake-news-report-unnamed-alleged-cia-source-without-evidence-russia-helped-trump.html
	White House, CIA, NY Times, Washington Post, CBS, etc. ‘fake news’: All ‘report’ unnamed alleged CIA source without evidence that Russia ‘helped’ Trump, but omits expert refutation, omits Stanford, American Statistical Association reports that DNC stole primary election from Sanders, and Clinton’s illegal rogue State Dept e-mails. 


https://theintercept.com/2017/01/04/washpost-is-richly-rewarded-for-false-news-about-russia-threat-while-public-is-deceived/
	WashPost Is Richly Rewarded for False News About Russia Threat While Public Is Deceived

	Glenn Greenwald

	In the past six weeks, the Washington Post published two blockbuster stories about the Russian threat that went viral: one on how Russia is behind a massive explosion of “fake news,” the other on how it invaded the U.S. electric grid. Both articles were fundamentally false. Each now bears a humiliating editor’s note grudgingly acknowledging that the core claims of the story were fiction: The first note was posted a full two weeks later to the top of the original article; the other was buried the following day at the bottom.


https://theintercept.com/2016/11/26/washington-post-disgracefully-promotes-a-mccarthyite-blacklist-from-a-new-hidden-and-very-shady-group/
	Washington Post Disgracefully Promotes a McCarthyite Blacklist From a New, Hidden, and Very Shady Group

	Ben Norton, Glenn Greenwald

	The Washington Post on Thursday night promoted the claims of a new, shadowy organization that smears dozens of U.S. news sites that are critical of U.S. foreign policy as being “routine peddlers of Russian propaganda.” The article by reporter Craig Timberg — headlined “Russian propaganda effort helped spread ‘fake news’ during election, experts say” — cites a report by an anonymous website calling itself PropOrNot, which claims that millions of Americans have been deceived this year in a massive Russian “misinformation campaign.”


Nicholas Schou's contribution is interesting. Sometimes he sounds like a typical Russian propagandist (and he at least touches on some of the more familiar propaganda https://pastebin.com/XTknug36):


https://whowhatwhy.org/2016/09/14/russians-really-using-cyber-tricks-undermine-us-democracy/
	September 14, 2016 | Nicholas Schou

	Are the Russians Really Using Cyber Tricks to Undermine US Democracy?
	Or is the Washington Post Playing Ventriloquists’ Dummy for the CIA

	Old Allies Fighting the New Cold War

	On Sept. 5, The Washington Post published a front page story asserting that the Russian government is seeking to undermine American democracy at a crucial time, using unspecified “cybertools” to spread disinformation and chaos that could alter the outcome of the Nov. 8 presidential election.

	“US intelligence and law enforcement agencies are investigating what they see as a broad covert Russian operation in the United States to sow public distrust in the upcoming presidential election and in US political institutions,” the Post reported.

	The paper’s source for this information? Anonymous “intelligence and congressional officials.” Not until the fifth paragraph of the story, which ran under the alarming headline, “US investigating potential covert Russian plan to disrupt November elections,” did the newspaper acknowledge that its stable of off-the-record sources had no “definitive proof” whatsoever of any Russian plot.

	Then, having issued the obligatory, if somewhat buried, disclaimer, the story went on to highlight the supposed threat posed by Russian hackers working for the Kremlin to the very foundation of American democracy.

	...This is hardly the first time the Post has allowed itself to serve as an unpaid asset of the CIA by running a story full of blind quotes highlighting some perceived national security threat. In fact, ever since the start of the Cold War, the newspaper has proved itself to be the most reliable media organ of the US national security state.

	The newspaper’s role in helping to build the illegitimate case for invading Iraq based on leaked reports of false evidence that Saddam Hussein had stockpiled weapons of mass destruction is perhaps the most famous example. However countless other examples exist, and they include editorial crimes of both commission and omission.

	...But as revealed by the recent hack of the Democratic National Committee (DNC), the only actual case of election-related hacking allegedly tied to the Kremlin, the endgame of that particular operation wasn’t to sabotage an election. In fact, the motive seems to have been exactly the opposite — to expose the fact that the DNC had sabotaged the party nomination campaign of Bernie Sanders.

	Sadly, we don’t need the Russians to undermine American democracy, because that mission has already been accomplished from within.


But he's otherwise more measured and "mainstream" about it. He has a book and articles in The Atlantic and Newsweek:


https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2016/07/operation-tinseltown-how-the-cia-manipulates-hollywood/491138/
	How the CIA Hoodwinked Hollywood

	Since its inception, the agency has wooed filmmakers, producers, and actors in order to present a rosy portrait of its operations to the American public.

	Nicholas Schou

	...In 1977, after this systematic media manipulation was publicly exposed by congressional investigations, the CIA created an Office of Public Affairs that was tasked with guiding press coverage of intelligence matters in a more transparent fashion. The agency insists that it no longer maintains a stable of friendly American journalists, and that its efforts to influence the press are much more above board. But, in truth, the intelligence empire’s efforts to manufacture the truth and mold public opinion are more vast and varied than ever before.


http://www.newsweek.com/cia-michael-dandrea-new-york-times-mark-mazzetti-drones-pakistan-al-qaeda-war-475180
	Outing the CIA’s ‘Undertaker’ Michael D’Andrea
	By Nicholas Schou

	...From its inception in 1947 until after the end of the Vietnam war, the CIA put reporters on its payroll. But after this practice was exposed during the Watergate era, Langley had to devise more subtle ways to manipulate coverage.

	Today, Mazzetti, like other national security reporters who are given access at Langley, has to constantly engage in an intricate choreography. In this dance with security officials, reporters sometimes take the lead, but often find themselves at their mercy. In December 2007, Mazzetti informed the CIA that he was about to publish a story revealing that Jose Rodriguez, the agency’s clandestine service chief, had destroyed evidence concerning the torture of two terror suspects. “I went to the CIA and told them I was going to write the story,” Mazzetti recalls. “I told them I was going to write it in two days, and put it in Friday’s paper. On Thursday, they called and said, ‘Are you really going to do this story?’”

	After Mazzetti said yes, an agency spokesperson told him that then-CIA Director Michael Hayden had just informed his staff that the destruction of the tapes had been leaked to the press. Suddenly, the Times reporter found himself scooped by Langley with apparent advance notice given to the Associated Press, presumably to punish him while rewarding a rival reporter.

	“That’s one of the risks we run when we have stories not favorable to the administration or CIA or Pentagon,” says Jonathan Landay of McClatchy Newspapers. “If we give them too much time, they will leak their version to someone else and upstage you. We are very cautious about when we inform a government agency that we are writing a story that they might not like.… We can’t give them too much time to respond, because they will leak it to someone else.”


http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/30/world/europe/30spy.html
	Spying Suspects Seemed Short on Secrets

	The suspected Russian spy ring rolled up by the F.B.I. this week had everything it needed for world-class espionage

	...The only things missing in more than a decade of operation were actual secrets to send home to Moscow. 

	...The assignments, described in secret instructions intercepted by the F.B.I., were to collect routine political gossip and policy talk that might have been more efficiently gathered by surfing the Web. And none of the 11 people accused in the case face charges of espionage, because in all those years they were never caught sending classified information back to Moscow

	... But why would Russian intelligence ask for such information from people settled in New Jersey rather than, say, Russian Embassy experts or specialists in Moscow or Washington?

	“It’s a Hail Mary pass,” said Milton A. Bearden, who served for three decades in the C.I.A.’s clandestine service and ran its Soviet and East European division as the Soviet Union fell.

	“Maybe I end up next to a guy that is the minority staff director on some committee and we do barbecues, or I coach his kid in Little League,” Mr. Bearden said. “How can you lose?”

	For the Russian government, he said, supporting the so-called illegals operation was probably relatively inexpensive

	...Clifford J. Levy contributed reporting from Moscow, and Mark Mazzetti and Peter Baker from Washington.


http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/29/world/europe/29spy.html
	In Ordinary Lives, U.S. Sees the Work of Russian Agents

	By SCOTT SHANE and CHARLIE SAVAGE JUNE 28, 2010 

	The alleged agents were directed to gather information on nuclear weapons, American policy toward Iran, C.I.A. leadership, Congressional politics and many other topics, prosecutors say. The Russian spies made contact with a former high-ranking American national security official and a nuclear weapons researcher, among others. But the charges did not include espionage, and it was unclear what secrets the suspected spy ring — which included five couples — actually managed to collect.

	...“The magnitude, and the fact that so many illegals were involved, was a shock to me,” said Oleg D. Kalugin, a former K.G.B. general who was a Soviet spy in the United States in the 1960s and 1970s under “legal” cover as a diplomat and Radio Moscow correspondent. “It’s a return to the old days, but even in the worst years of the cold war, I think there were no more than 10 illegals in the U.S., probably fewer.”

	...Reporting was contributed by ... Mark Mazzetti and Yeganeh June Torbati from Washington...


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/20/world/asia/china-cia-spies-espionage.html
	Killing C.I.A. Informants, China Crippled U.S. Spying Operations 

	By MARK MAZZETTI, ADAM GOLDMAN, MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and MATT APUZZO MAY 20, 2017 

	...Current and former American officials described the intelligence breach as one of the worst in decades. It set off a scramble in Washington’s intelligence and law enforcement agencies to contain the fallout, but investigators were bitterly divided over the cause. Some were convinced that a mole within the C.I.A. had betrayed the United States. Others believed that the Chinese had hacked the covert system the C.I.A. used to communicate with its foreign sources. Years later, that debate remains unresolved.

	...Those who rejected the mole theory attributed the losses to sloppy American tradecraft at a time when the Chinese were becoming better at monitoring American espionage activities in the country.

	...Still, the Chinese picked off more and more of the agency’s spies, continuing through 2011 and into 2012. 


http://www.jpost.com/Israel-News/Intelligence-File-Triangle-of-spies-493958
	The Jerusalem Post contacted the Times’s award-winning reporter Mark Mazzetti, who led the team of reporters on the China story, to get his take on the timing.

	Mazzetti said that his team had worked on the story for several months, and that neither the timing of the piece nor the motivation of their sources had anything to do with the news about the Trump intelligence leak. He said the story was reported and written before the other story broke.

	He indicated that the story had not even been “brought” to them, but that one reporter had just heard something from a source a few months ago, and that since then, the team on the story had been working on refining the story.

(I think Mazzetti's piece was some kind of attempt to intimidate/blackmail the CIA, not sure for what right now)


http://www.newsweek.com/cia-michael-dandrea-new-york-times-mark-mazzetti-drones-pakistan-al-qaeda-war-475180
	...Knowing what is going on in secret is, of course, the primary directive of all national security reporters. But trying to gain access to such secrets puts the scoop-hungry Washington press corps in a position of perpetual subordination and supplication in relation to government intelligence agencies. Reporters offend their official sources at their peril, for they may be cut off from the morsels of leaked intelligence that are these beat journalists’ specialty.

	Which is why the CIA no longer needs to recruit reporters and put them on its payroll. Instead, the agency simply relies on finely tuned relationships with a select group of elite reporters who are utterly dependent on the national security state for their professional survival.

	As the radical scholar Peter Dale Scott puts it: “The CIA nowadays doesn’t really have to buy journalists. [They] step into line voluntarily.” 


Taking a less extreme stance than his fake news counterparts, Schou says the CIA is not paying journalists outright, but manipulating them (the CIA disagrees https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/vol-61-no-1/pdfs/io-bookshelf.pdf#page=5):


https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/57hot4/hi_reddit_im_nicholas_schou_author_of_spooked_a/d8s2jk1/
	Mainstream media is kind of an annoying construct, as is alternative and/or new media. My book focuses both on what we would traditionally refer to as the elite media: the NYTimes, WashPost, etc, 


https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/57hot4/hi_reddit_im_nicholas_schou_author_of_spooked_a/d8sr6vy/
	The CIA has people working undercover in various occupations both here in the US and abroad, but those people, at least in the U.S., aren't reporters. Plame was working undercover, but not as a reporter. The sad thing is that the CIA doesn't need to recruit US reporters as paid agents, because as my book demonstrates, that mission has already been accomplished.


https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/57hot4/hi_reddit_im_nicholas_schou_author_of_spooked_a/d8sr6vy/

	NicholasSchou: The CIA has people working undercover in various occupations both here in the US and abroad, but those people, at least in the U.S., aren't reporters. Plame was working undercover, but not as a reporter. The sad thing is that the CIA doesn't need to recruit US reporters as paid agents, because as my book demonstrates, that mission has already been accomplished.

	Q: How can you prove such an assertion when such operations are classified secrets?

	NicholasSchou: To repeat: It has been illegal for the CIA to directly employ domestic journalists ever since the 1970s. Even assuming the CIA was willing to break the law, it would be a ridiculous thing for the agency to do given the fact that, AS MY BOOK WHICH YOU SHOULD READ DEMONSTRATES, the CIA doesn't need to pay reporters, because reporters do the agency's bidding simply to promote their own careers.


(also FWIW I think there probably are some journalists at least helping the CIA: https://twitter.com/ThisWeekABC/status/752132875051347968 although that's besides the point I'm trying to make right now...)

But what's interesting is his prediction that the CIA will plant suspicious, poorly-sourced anti-Kremlin articles on the Washington Post:


https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/57hot4/hi_reddit_im_nicholas_schou_author_of_spooked_a/d8s3hb2/
	I find it less difficult to generalize about individual reporters than the outlets where they work. At the NYT, James Risen, Matt Apuzzo and Adam Goldman are very dogged and willing to lose sources or fight editors to get important stories into print. But the NYT as an institution completely failed to do its job in publishing the Judith Miller stories on Iraqi WMDs. Same goes for the Washington Post. That newspaper is uniquely embedded in the U.S. national security state, and while it gets a lot of great scoops, it has also allowed itself to consistently act as a tool of Langley et al. The Intercept is starting to live up to its potential as a source of aggressive reporting, and Jason Leopold at Vice News is a one-man factory of great public records-based reporting, so much so that the FBI dubbed him the "FOIA Terrorist."


https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/57hot4/hi_reddit_im_nicholas_schou_author_of_spooked_a/d8s1oew/
	Q: What do you think they might be doing as far as the current election cycle is concerned?

	NicholasSchou: The CIA and White House are extremely upset about the possibility that the Russian government (possibly in cahoots with Wikileaks) is trying to manipulate the outcome of the U.S. elections. This has led to very prominently placed articles in the Washington Post and other elite news media outlets alleging that this is happening, although no clear link to the Kremlin has been cited. While it may be true, the American public is simply being told to believe this via newspaper articles that fail to quote even a single intelligence source speaking on the record about it, which is suspicious.


(Schou has some back-up form Greenwald, others:


https://theintercept.com/2016/12/10/anonymous-leaks-to-the-washpost-about-the-cias-russia-beliefs-are-no-substitute-for-evidence/
	Anonymous Leaks to the WashPost About the CIA’s Russia Beliefs Are No Substitute for Evidence
	Glenn Greenwald


https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/01/07/glenn_greenwald_to_tucker_carlson_washington_post_pushing_fake_news_on_russia.html
	Glenn Greenwald To Tucker Carlson: Washington Post Pushing Fake News On Russia


https://www.rt.com/op-edge/388842-washington-post-russia-trump/
 	The Washington Post: America's #1 source of mass hysteria 

	The most widely circulated publication in Washington DC, a weapon of mass distribution, has sparked a political firestorm with an unsubstantiated report leveled against - any guesses? - President Donald Trump and his supposed bromance with Putin's Russia. 


http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/russia-washington-post-story-yet-another-fake/article/2623184
	Russia: Washington Post story 'yet another fake'

	The Washington Post reported on Monday that the revelation put a source of intelligence on the Islamic State at risk.

	Maria Zakharova, spokeswoman for the Russian foreign ministry, on Facebook on Tuesday described the reports as "yet another fake.")



But you might remember (https://pastebin.com/ar4GWrRT, https://pastebin.com/z49g6KKe) that there *have* been suspicious, poorly-sourced anti-Kremlin (and in particular, anti-Trump) articles on the Washington Post:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/trump-revealed-highly-classified-information-to-russian-foreign-minister-and-ambassador/2017/05/15/530c172a-3960-11e7-9e48-c4f199710b69_story.html
	Trump revealed highly classified information to Russian foreign minister and ambassador

	By Greg Miller and Greg Jaffe


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/russian-ambassador-told-moscow-that-kushner-wanted-secret-communications-channel-with-kremlin/2017/05/26/520a14b4-422d-11e7-9869-bac8b446820a_story.html
	Russian ambassador told Moscow that Kushner wanted secret communications channel with Kremlin 

	By Ellen Nakashima, Adam Entous and Greg Miller


Miller and Jaffe hit the reliable markers of playing-down the Russians spies and writing hit pieces on McMaster:


http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/06/28/AR2010062805227.html
	FBI arrests 10 accused of working as Russian spies

	...Whether it succeeded was unclear Monday. Federal law enforcement officials portrayed their operation as a spectacular counterintelligence success that uncovered a group of spies capable of doing great damage to U.S. national security. "I can't remember a case where we've been able to arrest 10 intelligence officers from a foreign country in one fell swoop," one official said. "This network in the United States has now been completely compromised."

	But other officials said the Russian network appears to have accomplished little, if any, of its espionage aims, even though some of the suspects had lived in this country for up to two decades. 

	...it is unclear whether the information was passed to the headquarters of Russian foreign intelligence

	...Staff writers Maria Glod, Greg Miller and Mary Beth Sheridan and staff researchers Meg Smith and Julie Tate contributed to this report. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/white-house-offers-shifting-explanations-of-trumps-disclosures-to-russians/2017/05/16/23c6c456-3a4b-11e7-8854-21f359183e8c_story.html
 	White House offers shifting explanations of Trump’s disclosures to Russians 
	By Greg Miller and Ashley Parker

	Trump also enlisted his national security adviser, H.R. McMaster, to help contain the fallout from the latest damaging revelations about the administration’s relationship with Russia. Trump revealed the classified intelligence in a White House meeting with Russia’s foreign minister and ambassador one day after firing FBI Director James B. Comey over frustration with the bureau’s investigation of any ties between Trump associates and Russian officials.

	Speaking to reporters at the White House, McMaster refused to say whether Trump had shared classified information with the representatives from Moscow, falling back on a refrain that Trump’s disclosures were “wholly appropriate.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/a-new-role-for-mcmaster-trumps-shield/2017/05/16/c49bdcd0-3a60-11e7-a058-ddbb23c75d82_story.html
 	A new role for McMaster: Trump’s shield 

	By Greg Jaffe

	...The biggest burden for McMaster, though, may be own words as captured in “Dereliction of Duty.” “The president was lying, and he expected the Chiefs to lie as well or, at least, to withhold the whole truth,” McMaster wrote in the book’s epilogue, referring to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “Although the president should not have placed the Chiefs in that position, the flag officers should not have tolerated it when they had.”


And Adam Entous seems to be a fan of the "dodgy dossier" (which might be another good marker of someone being a Russian propagandist, considering it was shown to be "dodgy" almost immediately after it was leaked):


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/fbi-obtained-fisa-warrant-to-monitor-former-trump-adviser-carter-page/2017/04/11/620192ea-1e0e-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html
	By Ellen Nakashima, Devlin Barrett and Adam Entous

	While there, Page allegedly met with Igor Sechin, a Putin confidant and chief executive of the energy company Rosneft, according to a dossier compiled by a former British intelligence officer and cited at a congressional hearing by Rep. Adam B. Schiff (Calif.), the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee. Officials said some of the information in the dossier has been verified by U.S. intelligence agencies, and some of it hasn’t, while other parts are unlikely to ever be proved or disproved.

	On Tuesday, Page dismissed what he called “the dodgy dossier” of false allegations.


https://twitter.com/adamentous/status/836690571330785281
	FBI wanted to pay British spy who penned Trump dossier, a sign of his credibility as a source https://wpo.st/bXPe2  @thamburger @postroz


He also sounded like he took the dossier seriously when he told MSNBC about the "mysterious letter" that drove the reporting on his sketchy Kushner back-channel story (about 12 and a half minutes in http://www.msnbc.com/rachel-maddow/watch/kusher-sought-kremlin-back-channel-via-russian-ambassador-report-954580547991).


Now if the Russians want to discredit the CIA and ostensibly CIA-affiliated journalists, they can do better than having Glenn Greenwald yell at them. Russian intelligence are famous for their agent provocateurs, who would infiltrate groups they don't like and discredit them:


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/books-and-monographs/okhrana-the-paris-operations-of-the-russian-imperial-police/5474-1.html
	Agent provocateur is a French term, but the Russians perfected the art. In fact, the primary purpose of the Foreign Bureau's provocations was to scare the French into taking action against Russian radicals and cooperating with the Okhrana. The most notorious provocation occurred in Paris in 1890, when Arkadiy Harting (a.k.a. Abraham Gekel'man or Landezen) organized a well-armed team of bombthrowers and then betrayed them to the Paris police. These heavily publicized arrests helped persuade the French public of the dangers posed by Russian revolutionaries in France. The episode also convinced officials in St. Petersburg that republican France could get tough on Russian radicals and make a good ally. To some extent, at least, this helped diminish mutual suspicions and created an atmosphere on both sides conducive to negotiation of the Franco-Russian alliance of 1891.


https://etd.ohiolink.edu/!etd.send_file?accession=ohiou1398772391
	According to one of Dzerzhinskii’s lieutenants, Martyn Latsis, the first Chekist leader strictly prohibited the use of agent provocateurs when the Cheka first formed. Yet, despite this order, the Cheka quickly developed the same tradecraft of provocation to penetrated counter-revolutionary organizations; in fact, the first known successful case of Soviet provocation occurred as early as 1918. Dzerzhinskii dispatched agents to penetrate a Petrograd-based counter-revolutionary organizationthat recruited soldiers for General Alexei Kaledin, who led the White forces in Don territory. The agents, who posed as former Tsarist officers wanting to join the opposition movement, quickly penetrated the underground organization and by February the following year, exposed the organization, resulting in the mass arrest of about four thousand counter-revolutionary activists.

	Like the other methods the Soviets employed, the Cheka expanded the use of provocation to penetrate foreign threats as well. The most sensationalized case of early provocation, the so-called ‘Lockhart Plot,’ involved the former British consul-general Robert B. Lockhart. Lockhart, who had been stationed at the British embassy prior to the revolution, returned to Russia with unofficial intentions to persuade the new government to continue Russia’s war with Germany. The mission, obviously, failed. Lockhart quickly changed his views on the Bolsheviks and looked at the new government with distain; by the spring of 1918, Lockhart actively involved himself with anti-Bolshevik forces and monetarily supported (over ten million rubles) counterrevolutionary activities in Moscow. After suspecting Lockhart’s participation in the anti-Bolshevik underground, Dzerzhinskii assigned two Latvian agents provocateurs in June 1918 to penetrate the organization. By 31 August, the Chekist leader had compiled enough evidence and ordered the arrest of Lockhart and his other conspirators, which included French and American agents as well. Soviet leaders hailed this operation as monumental success against the capitalistic west and the case remained somewhat of a legend in KGB history.

	Foreigners quickly observed the Cheka’s reliance on agent provocateurs as a revival and expansion of the Okhrana’s system. During the height of provocation in prerevolutionary Russia, Vladimir Burtsev, a Russian émigré living in Paris, dedicated his life to exposing Tsarist agents. Burtsev became famous after he single-handedly exposed Evno Azev as a provocateur(See Chapter 1),for which he gained the nickname ‘Sherlock Holmes’ of the revolutionary movement. Burtsev published and edited multiple periodicals criticizing the Imperial Russia and the repressive methods the Okhrana used against the revolutionary movement, especially the technique of provocation. At the time, Bolshevik revolutionaries hailed Burtsev as a hero. However, as events unfolded and the Bolshevik government employed the same methods, Burtsev turned critical of his onetime co-conspirators. In an article published in 1927, Burtsev condemned the Bolshevik government: “These men are now in power, and their attitude towards provocation has radically changed. They have ‘improved’ the former Secret Police, replacing it by their Che-Ka or G.P.U., which has surpassed the former by its cruelty and treachery. If the Secret Police of the old days possessed itsAzefs and Zubatovs, the present government of the Soviets has given Russia super-Azefs and super-Zubatovs.”


Generally, being an agent provocateur has three steps:

1. infiltrate you
2. convince you to do something stupid (or failing that, do something stupid themselves)
3. make you look bad 


For example, it really looks like Miller and Jaffe's "Trump leaked classified information [and it was a disaster worst ever code-red etc.]" story is baloney. But what if there were hard-evidence that the story was over-played? (And why is Putin grinning so much?):


http://abcnews.go.com/International/putin-jokes-release-record-trumps-russian-meeting-congress/story?id=47459199
	 Russian President Vladimir Putin poked fun at reports that President Trump had shared classified intelligence with Russian officials during a White House meeting last week, saying if they were true, the information had not been passed on to him.

	Putin, trying to hide a smile, told reporters he had already discussed the accusations with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who attended the Oval Office meeting with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak.

	“It was necessary to issue him a reprimand, a rebuke,” Putin said of Lavrov, “because he didn’t share these secrets. Not with me, not with the Russia’s intelligence services. That--that’s very bad from his side.”

	Lavrov, who was in attendance at the press conference in Sochi, Russia, laughed in response.

	Putin, apparently joking, also said that Russia would be willing to provide a record of the meeting to Congress. He used a Russian word that could be translated as “recording” or “transcript.”


If such evidence were released, it would discredit the Washington Post and by extension the CIA (in the eyes of some), thanks to the efforts of Schou, Greenwald, and fake news sites tying them together. It would also make Schou and Greenwald look like prophets, further adding credibility to their claims that the CIA is influencing the media to blame Russia and undermine Trump. (You can see a similar effect with forgeries like the Protocols, Tanaka Memorial, and to some extent the "dirty dossier," where Russian intelligence can try to make some of the documents' claims come true so that people believe the rest). It may very well be that Jaffe, Miller, and others intended to overplay their Trump-Russia stories with the aim to discredit the Washington Post, the CIA, and the idea of Trump-Russia connection itself, and McMaster intended to counter that (and it should be said, that doesn't mean everything they've reported is false--a smart thing to do would be to mix the truth with lies and discredit it all in one fell-swoop).

One can imagine that if something like this played-out, Trump supporters would be very upset, every story tying Trump to Russia would be called into question, and public trust in the mainstream media and the CIA would take a hit--a lot of good news for Russian intelligence.

What I suspect the Russians will do is take this idea and turn it up to 11. That's where Comey comes in.


https://pastebin.com/mjWXFBDr 
