I first suspected Comey of being a Russian spy several months ago, when I learned that Jack Goldsmith had helped his career (I remember reading he did even more than what I sent in my last email, although I wasn't able to find it again in the time). After watching his May 3rd testimony (https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/) and taking note of how certain media figures were covering Comey, I became convinced I had a case.

I knew that my computers would keep getting hacked even after taking precautions that would make it very hard for garden-variety malware to work. So, I did not take notes, or even talk that much about what made me suspect that Comey was a Russian spy. I knew that if he were, he would be a very high-value spy, and the advantage of the element of surprise could be worth it. I memorized the case against Comey.

On top of that, I had another idea. Leading up to Comey's June 8th testimony, I knew I would have to start researching certain things and taking certain steps that could give me away. So, I did this: I made some changes to my computer's setup that would have made it clear, to anyone watching, that I intended to stop hackers from spying on what I type. In this setup, I wrote a document making a case that Comey is *not* a Russian spy (along with some notes that would later help me write my case that Comey, in fact, is spy). After writing this, I reverted this special computer setup, and began doing research and typing-up sloppy notes for my case that Comey is a spy. Now, if it turned out that my setup wasn't very good at stopping hackers, that might have confused anyone trying to get a look at what I was up to (but I'm sure nobody was peeking, right?).

Now that I think about it, if it turns out somebody was peeking after all (shame on you!) and got confused, that wouldn't be such a bad thing, since if Russian propagandists thought I was going to drop a big bombshell report implying Comey is definitely not a Russian spy, they might go and pass along anything I send them in the meantime, or even promote it. With that in play, I sent out emails showing two important pieces of information.

I remembered that Russian propagandists targeting the left had spread propaganda favoring Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election, and that this particular brand of propagandist is harder to pin down. Still, I had long thought it was odd that Comey testified that the Russians interfered in the election because they hated Hillary Clinton.

So, without knowing which had promoted Clinton and which did not, I made lists of mainstream-media journalists who were spreading two conspicuous Russian propaganda narratives: the coverage of the 2010 Russian spy case, and attacks against H.R. McMaster after the overblown "fake scandal" about Trump leaking classified info to the Russians:


https://pastebin.com/r5PHGSnz
	...With that in mind, it's interesting to see how the media at large covered the story of the 10 Russian spies arrested by the FBI in 2010


https://pastebin.com/ar4GWrRT
	...Yet, after the Washington Post released an article saying that Jared Kushner, among other things, wanted to set up a secret back-channel with the Russians (https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/russian-ambassador-told-moscow-that-kushner-wanted-secret-communications-channel-with-kremlin/2017/05/26/520a14b4-422d-11e7-9869-bac8b446820a_story.html), some in print and social media took to beating-up on McMaster again


I suspected I could use these two "markers" of Russian propagandists later (I have previously used denying Assad used chemical weapons in Syria and blaming the U.S. for the war in Ukraine war as "markers," for example) in making the case that that Russian propagandists had aided Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election, and it turns that for a few of them I was right:


https://pastebin.com/bqyWNzgi
	...According to Comey, Putin wanted Trump to win because he wanted Hillary to lose because he "hated her so much." I don't know if Putin especially hates Clinton or not (I figure he hates all of us), but Comey's explanation doesn't make sense.
 
	The Russian's didn't just spread fake news and propaganda during the general election--they targeted the primaries too, which is easy enough to verify yourself:


In this way, I had done a good chunk of my work beforehand, hopefully without giving away the case I had memorized.

When it came time to make my case, I was still behind in research of certain things, although I did want to write it up as late as possible anyway, so Comey and Russian propagandists wouldn't have as much time to react. The morning of July 8th, after a frantic and sleepless night, I sent out my case an hour before Comey's hearing began.


As it turns out, writing something like that as quickly as possible without sleep is a terrible idea. While most of the information in my last email is useful and seems right (besides the typos), I don't think that's enough for something as big as the FBI director being a Russian spy, and my email had a few silly and obvious errors in it anyway.


What follows is a series of write-ups serving two important goals: 1. Making a thorough (maybe too thorough) case that Comey is a Russian spy, and 2. Making a guess at what the Russians are going to do next, particularly using Comey.


First, here are a few short and one really long correction for my last email:


- I downplayed the emails related to Comey's Oct 28th letter as "some Clinton emails on Weiner's laptop." I have since found that this is a mischaracterization--the FBI found that emails between Huma Abedin and Clinton were deleted by Clinton's lawyers in an unusual way, which would have made the Huma-Clinton correspondence of particular interest to the FBI, at least until they did their de-duplication.


- Right at the end of my explosive email, I made a bold and daring claim that Comey didn't tell anybody else about Trump's statements about the Flynn investigation:


https://pastebin.com/bqyWNzgi
	And, for whatever reason, Comey didn't tell anybody else about Trump's alleged attempts to influence the Flynn investigation, leaving it to a matter of Trump's word vs. Comey's


Except Comey *did* tell other people about Trump's statements about the Flynn investigation, just not the investigative team. Which is actually right there in the passage I quoted...

Actually, Comey's opening statement identifies potential witnesses for at least parts of his conversations with Trump:


http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/07/politics/james-comey-memos-testimony/index.html
	January 27 Dinner

	...It turned out to be just the two of us, seated at a small oval table in the center of the Green Room. Two Navy stewards waited on us, only entering the room to serve food and drinks.

	...February 14 Oval Office Meeting

	...After he had spoken for a few minutes about leaks, Reince Priebus leaned in through the door by the grandfather clock and I could see a group of people waiting behind him. The President waved at him to close the door, saying he would be done shortly. The door closed.

	...The President returned briefly to the problem of leaks. I then got up and left out the door by the grandfather clock, making my way through the large group of people waiting there, including Mr. Priebus and the Vice President.


- About Comey briefing Trump that the dossier was about to be leaked, I asked:

https://pastebin.com/bqyWNzgi
	how did you know for sure? why is a "defensive briefing" even necessary? and did you really have to talk about the blackmail material in detail?

These questions aren't that good. A better question is: why brief people on the dossier at all?


https://pastebin.com/S6EEBZ3c
