Last time I tried to guess what the Russians were going to do next, I got it dead wrong. But I think I am a little wiser now. That said, here's my best guess:

First: any attempt to impeach Trump they will milk for as many partisan squabbles as they can get away with. This pretty much a given--increasing political polarization (http://www.people-press.org/2014/06/12/political-polarization-in-the-american-public/) is basically a byproduct of active measures (just about any political scandal sparks partisan fighting, for example), and increasing polarization always hurts America. Supposedly, they had tried as much with Clinton's impeachment, although I haven't looked into that yet. Regardless, the current "Comey vs. Trump" set up is already polarized:


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/poll-americans-trust-james-comey-over-trump_us_593c4814e4b0b13f2c6b1b69
	POLL: Americans Trust James Comey Over Trump

	Views are deeply divided along political lines, although Trump’s doubters are notably more unified than his defenders. Seventy percent of Trump voters say they trust the president’s honesty more than Comey’s, while 89 percent of voters who supported Hillary Clinton put more faith in the former FBI director.

But most of all, you should expect the Okhrana to do anything they can to continue hiding and obfuscating their goals and methods. Active measures depends on deception to work--but the more their targets comprehend how they are being fooled (and that they are being fooled in the first place), the less power they have to wage war and influence the world. They derive their power from secrecy.

Or at least a kind of secrecy: Major recent declassifications have made public the scope and nature of Russian intelligence activities:


Venona papers declassified        - 1996

CIA Lin Piao reports declassified - 1999

Vassiliev notebooks declassified  - 2009

Illegals Program arrests          - 2010

Mitrokhin Archive declassified    - 2014


Between these disclosures we know much of FDR's administration (including his top advisor) were Soviet spies, multiple famous Western journalists and scientist worked for the Soviets, Mao Zedong and Al Gore were likely useful idiots, the KGB had at least thousands of foreign agents, and such agents still operate in "deep cover" today. These disclosures also give insight into how their active measures work.

For the most part, the Russians can no longer conceal the scope and nature of their operations--it's all in the public domain. But they can confuse, obfuscate, and manage the public perception of their operations:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	ROS-LEHTINEN: I'd like to ask you gentlemen if you could describe what, if anything, Russia did in this election that to your knowledge they did or they didn't do in previous elections, how -- how it was -- were their actions different in this election than -- than in previous ones.

	ROGERS: I'd say the biggest difference from my perspective was both the use of cyber, the hacking as a vehicle to physically gain access to information to extract that information and then to make it widely, publicly available without any alteration or change.

	COMEY: The only thing I'd add is they were unusually loud in their intervention. It's almost as if they didn't care that we knew what they were doing or that they wanted us to see what they were doing. It was very noisy, their intrusions in different institutions.

	ROS-LEHTINEN: And what specifically based on this loudness did the FBI or the NSA do to prevent or counter this Russian active measure that we read about in the intelligence community assessment? As loud as they were, what did we do to counter that?

	COMEY: Well, among other things, we alerted people who had been victims of intrusions to permit them to tighten their systems to see if they couldn't kick the Russian actors out. We also, as a government, supplied information to all the states so they could equip themselves to make sure there was no successful effort to affect the vote and there was none, as we said earlier.

	And then the government as a whole in October called it out. And I believe it was Director Clapper and then-secretary Jeh Johnson issued a statement saying this is what the Russians are doing, sort of an inoculation.

	ROS-LEHTINEN: And the loudness to which you refer, perhaps they were doing these kinds of actions previously in other elections but they were not doing it as loudly. What -- why do you think that they did not mind being loud and being found out?

	COMEY: I don't know the answer for sure. I think part -- their number one mission is to undermine the credibility of our entire democracy enterprise of this nation and so it might be that they wanted us to help them by telling people what they were doing.

	Their loudness, in a way, would be counting on us to amplify it by telling the American people what we saw and freaking people out about how the Russians might be undermining our elections successfully. And so that might have been part of their plan, I don't know for sure.

	ROGERS: I've -- I agree with Director Comey. I mean, a big difference to me in the past was while there was cyber activity, we never saw in previous presidential elections information being published on such a massive scale that had been illegally removed both from private individuals as well as organizations associated with the democratic process both inside the government and outside the government.


What's a reason for them to be "loud" with their hacking? To push into the mind's of the public at large that hacking is how the Russians operate. And what better way to be "loud" than hack and release the emails of a U.S. Presidential candidate in the middle of one of the craziest elections in history? 

You can see this same kind of "perception management" of their operations after the illegals arrested in 2010 (https://pastebin.com/r5PHGSnz). The spies' arrest sparked a minor media sensation--not because "deep-cover Russian spies are blending into American society and acting in inexplicable ways" but because "Anna Chapman is hot."

It amounts to "hiding in plain sight"--almost everybody has a vague notion that Russian spies were arrested in the U.S., but what people remember about it is Anna Chapman and her poses. Absolutely everybody knows Russia intervened in the U.S. election, but what they might end up remembering is that Russia did it with hacking. Everyone can have a general idea of what the Russians did (cultivate Trump, swing the election, spread propaganda, employ spies) but have the wrong idea about how (hire him as a spy, hack Clinton's emails and that's it, troll social media a little, recruit only ethnic Russians who travel to Russia), and Russia's methods are obfuscated.

Besides keeping Americans easier to fool for next time, it looks like obfuscating their methods has brought the Russians other benefits:


http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/01/10/u-s-public-says-russia-hacked-campaign/
	Democrats are also more likely to support the sanctions and actions taken against Russia as a response. Among those who have heard about the allegations, 51% of Democrats view the response as about right, while 37% say the sanctions and actions do not go far enough and just 7% say they go too far. By comparison, about a third of Republicans (35%) say the sanctions and actions against Russia go too far, while 39% say they are about right and just 17% say they do not go far enough.

	Overall, about one-in three Americans (29%) currently call Russia “an adversary” and an additional 44% consider it a “serious problem, but not an adversary”; just 24% say it is “not a problem.”


It's easier to forgive Russia if you think all they did is lift Clinton's emails to Wikileaks to settle a score, and so easier for Russia to get away with it politically. But if Americans were to learn Russia turned our media, politicians, or even vote machines against us, things might be different.

The Pew Research link shows another way the Russians can "hide in plain sight" by politicising their meddling itself. This election was the first time fewer Republicans were polled as seeing Russia as an adversary than Democrats (20% to 38% -- which was 39% to 19% three years earlier). The numbers aren't as important as the switch--a hint that Russia's meddling became politicized after the election. The danger comes from partisan motivated reasoning (https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/09/how-politics-breaks-our-brains-and-how-we-can-put-them-back-together/453315/), which clobbers a partisan's capacity to reason about politicized issues in general. A Republican might have trouble accepting that their favorite conservative website is Russian propaganda, for example, or a Democrat might dismiss that Russian intelligence prefers agents of influence over blackmail, as it would imply Trump is less likely to be guilty of a crime. Russia politicizing their meddling makes it harder for people to figure out how it works.

But probably the surest way Russian intelligence could hide their methods and goals is by silencing those who are in the best position to know them--the intelligence agencies of their adversaries. Western intelligence agencies--if not just about every other intelligence agency in the world--are probably angry enough by now that the Russians can't stop them from publishing more of their secrets (and arguably they could be faulted for not informing the world--how many lives could have been saved if the Chinese and Japanese suspected Zhang Zhizhong of trying to provoke a war, for example?). But if the Russians can't stop intelligence agencies from talking, they can try to stop the public at large from listening. Character assassination is a staple of active measures--if Russian intelligence can convince enough of the public that other intelligence agencies are scheming, lying, or incompetent (e.g. "These are the same people who said Saddam Hussein has weapons of mass destruction!"), those intelligence agencies are effectively silenced.

Western intelligence agencies have long got a bad-wrap in the press (although you shouldn't assume everybody who criticizes the CIA is a Russian spy):


https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/cia-magic-video-investigation-uri-geller
	That Time the CIA Investigated a Magician to See if Magic Was Real


https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/cia-fake-weed-hotbox-smelly-1970s-weedweek2017
	The CIA Created a Hotbox That Can't Get You High


http://www.nytimes.com/1976/08/05/archives/cia-considered-big-lsd-purchase-agency-data-disclose-1953-idea-to.html
	C.I.A. CONSIDERED BIG LSD PURCHASE


http://www.openculture.com/2014/12/ayn-rand-helped-the-fbi-identify-its-a-wonderful-life-as-communist-propaganda.html
	Ayn Rand Helped the FBI Identify It’s A Wonderful Life as Communist Propaganda


https://www.usatoday.com/videos/news/politics/2016/11/05/93316476/
	FBI investigating itself for dumping info so close to the election


https://thinkprogress.org/fbi-launches-internal-investigation-into-its-own-twitter-account-8d5fc2a81fdc
	FBI launches internal investigation into its own Twitter account


http://www.dailykos.com/story/2017/2/4/1629967/-Draft-plan-to-resurrect-CIA-s-secret-torture-dungeons-said-to-be-revised-because-of-broad-resistance
	Draft plan to resurrect CIA's secret torture dungeons said to be revised because of broad resistance

	By Meteor Blades


And, while it's not always clear what is active measures and what's not, it's pretty clear that Russia's active measures have been trying to weaken and discredit Western intel agencies:


https://www.infowars.com/why-the-cia-killed-kennedy/
	Why The CIA Killed Kennedy


https://stonecoldtruth.com/the-cias-legacy-of-lies/
	The CIA’s Legacy of Lies

	By Roger stone


https://www.infowars.com/nsa-whistleblower-spy-grid-is-part-of-world-govt-takeover/
	Top NSA Official: Spy Grid Helping Establish World Government

	...“Certainly it is population control, but not just of any given country – but of the world,” the whistleblower said. 

	...“And in order to do that they need to be able to control the people of the world. So in order to do that, you have to have knowledge of them to know who’s doing what so you can stop it, or manipulate it any way you want.”


http://www.npr.org/2015/03/31/395829446/after-snowden-the-nsa-faces-recruitment-challenge
	After Snowden, The NSA Faces Recruitment Challenge 

	"When I was a senior in high school I thought I would end up working for a defense contractor or the NSA itself," Swann says. Then, in 2013, NSA contractor Edward Snowden leaked a treasure-trove of top-secret documents. They showed that the agency's programs to collect intelligence were far more sweeping than Americans realized.

	After Snowden's revelations, Swann's thinking changed. The NSA's tactics, which include retaining data from American citizens, raise too many questions in his mind: "I can't see myself working there," he says, "partially because of these moral reasons."

	This year, the NSA needs to find 1,600 recruits.


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/17/us/politics/obama-putin-russia-hacking-us-elections.html
	Obama Confronts Complexity of Using a Mighty Cyberarsenal Against Russia


http://money.cnn.com/2016/12/16/technology/obama-us-vulnerable-to-hacking/index.html
	US more vulnerable to hacking than Russia, Obama says


http://www.abc.net.au/news/2013-06-24/snowden-flees-to-russia-avoiding-extradition/4775048
	Snowden flees to Russia, avoiding extradition


https://www.facebook.com/davidcnswanson/photos/pb.297768373319.-2207520000.1495135478./10155263180063320/?type=3
	David Swanson

	Who benefits most from blaming Putin for everything? This guy.


https://twitter.com/davidcnswanson/status/837734112144285697
	David Swanson
	
	Putin's trained dog finally identified

	R[ussia] T[oday]

	'She is being a guard dong' - Putin jokes as his pet barks at Japanese


https://www.counterpunch.org/2016/12/12/the-cia-never-ever-lies/
	The CIA Never Ever Lies

	by David Swanson 

	At moments like these, when every good responsible and enlightened liberal is recognizing the need to destroy the world in order to save it, by getting World War III started with Russia before Trump can move in and damage anything, I believe it is important to remember a few facts that will strengthen our resolve:

	The oligarch who owns the Washington Post has CIA contracts worth at least twice what he paid to buy the Washington Post, thus making the Washington Post the most reliable authority on the CIA we have ever, ever had.

	When the CIA concludes things in secret that are reported to the Washington Post by anonymous sources the reliability of the conclusions is heightened exponentially.

	Phrases like “individuals with connections to the Russian government” are simply shorthand for “Vladimir Putin” because the Washington Post has too much good taste to actually print that name.

	Claims to know extremely difficult things to know, like the motivations of said individuals, are essentially fact, given what we know of the CIA’s near perfect record over the decades.


https://www.counterpunch.org/2016/11/29/how-i-produce-fake-news-for-russia/
	How I Produce Fake News for Russia

	by David Swanson 

	Apparently I’ve written “fake news” on behalf of Russia


https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/2602813/furious-mi6-chiefs-slam-ex-officer-chris-steele-for-appalling-judgement-over-donald-trump-dodgy-dossier-scandal/
	'HE's AN IDIOT' Furious MI6 chiefs slam ex-officer Chris Steele for ‘appalling judgement’ over Donald Trump dodgy dossier scandal

	The foreign spy agency has told ministers their Russia operative showed “appalling judgement” over the incident.

	MI6 Chief Sir Alex Younger is said to be livid if it is true that he accepted a commission to dig dirt on a US politician from a Washington DC rivals.

	And one senior intelligence source branded the 53-year-old “an idiot.”

	The source told The Sun: “Chris should never have accepted this bit of work.

	“It was always going to come out at some stage, as was his involvement with it, and that is deeply embarrassing to the service.”

	Mr Steele’s former colleagues from MI6 – real name, the Secret Intelligence Service – also said he should have made it clear that there was no proof for the lurid accusations about Donald Trump’s twisted sex games with Moscow prostitutes.

	The source added: “There are hundreds of FSB guys running around the world at the moment saying all sorts of things, for all sorts of reasons”.


https://twitter.com/russianembassy/status/819525677175242752?lang=en
	Russian Embassy, UK

	Christopher Steele story: MI6 officers are never ex: briefing both ways - against Russia and US President


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_INFEKTION
	Operation INFEKTION was a KGB disinformation campaign to spread information that the United States invented HIV/AIDS as part of a biological weapons research project at Fort Detrick, Maryland. The Soviet Union used it to undermine the United States’ credibility, foster anti-Americanism, isolate America abroad, and create tensions between host countries and the U.S. over the presence of American military bases (which were often portrayed as the cause of AIDS outbreaks in local populations).

	According to U.S. State Department analysts, another reason the Soviet Union "promoted the AIDS disinformation may have been its attempt to distract international attention away from its own offensive biological warfare program, which [was monitored] for decades."

	...Claims that the CIA had sent "AIDS-oiled condoms" to other countries sprang up independently in the African press, well after the operation was started. In 1987, a book (Once Again About the CIA) was published by the Novosti Press Agency, with the quote:

		The CIA Directorate of Science and Technology is continuously modernizing its inventory of pathogenic preparations, bacteria and viruses and studying their effect on man in various parts of the world. To this end, the CIA uses American medical centers in foreign countries. A case in point was the Pakistani Medical Research Center in Lahore… set up in 1962 allegedly for combating malaria.

	The resulting public backlash eventually closed down the legitimate medical research center.


http://www.csmonitor.com/1985/0228/zdis.html
	As for forgeries, these have been used by the Soviets since soon after the 1917 revolution. The most elaborate in recent years was ``US Army Field Manual 30-31B,'' an entire manual that urged American officers to spy on their host countries and in some cases subvert their governments. The fake manual first appeared in Turkey in 1975. It was later circulated in some 20 countries to try to implicate the CIA in the Red Brigades' murder of Christian Democrat leader Aldo Moro in Italy in 1978.


http://www.nytimes.com/1981/07/21/opinion/kgb-disinformation.html
	K.G.B. DISINFORMATION

	The current concern in some Congressional and journalistic circles about Soviet ''disinformation'' activities in the United States news media rests upon a fundamental misunderstanding of the K.G.B. program.

	For more than 20 years, the Soviet Committee for State Security (K.G.B.) has secretly subsidized publications, planted rumors, and distributed forged documents as a minor but useful supplement to the large-scale anti-American propaganda campaign openly directed from Moscow.

	The most effective part of the K.G.B.'s work has been the fabrication of documents designed to provide the third world with hard ''evidence'' of America's hostile intentions. Most forgeries have had as their target the elites and semiliterate peoples of the Middle East, Africa, and Latin America. The publications have alleged a Central Intelligence Agency plan to unseat several Latin American regimes, a secret American commitment to Israel (for the Arab audience), assassination plots against the late President Sukarno of Indonesia (he was taken in) and President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt (he was not). 


https://twitter.com/cjcmichel/status/821510721347395584
	The KGB did, however, seek to cover its own tracks by circulating forged documents indicating that the CIA was involved with the FLQ. On September 24, 1971 the Montreal Star published a photocopy of a bogus CIA memorandum dated October 20, 1970:

		Subject Quebec. Sources advice that urgent action e taken to temporarily break contact with the FLQ militants since the Canadian government's measures may have undesirable consequences.

	Questions followed in the Canadian parliament. Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau declared that if the CIA was operating in Canada, it was "without the knowledge or consent of the government." Twenty years later the forged memorandum was still being quoted in Canadian publications, even by some academic authorities. Further forgeries suggested CIA involvement with Quebec extremists were circulated on the eve of the visit to Canada by President Nixon in 1972.


https://pastebin.com/3gy11DRE 
