As far as we can learn from history, the way Russia used the Watergate scandal can at least give us ideas as to how they think. It's often said active measures are meant, in part, to foment public distrust in the government, and that bears-out in Russia's targeting of anti-Vietnam war activists and their reporting on Nixon, Watergate, and Vietnam, especially regarding documents like the Pentagon papers and the Huston plan (which helped tie all these together, among other things). But it's less often said how Russian intelligence make use of this distrust. Hersh's reporting shows, I think, a pretty clear effort to re-direct public outrage at the Vietnam War, Watergate, and Nixon to the CIA. And this essentially gave people like Schlesinger, Colby, Angleton, Hersh, and Church cover to act in ways to pile-on the beat-down of the CIA: it gave an excuse for Schlesinger and Colby to collect the family jewels, Colby and Angleton a reason to act guilty and make the CIA look even worse, Hersh to continue reporting on the scandal for the public interest, Colby an excuse to confess to Church, the Pike Committee and its young "anti-war" staffers an excuse to attack U.S. intelligence agencies, and Colby and Congress an excuse to "lobotomize" the CIA. Manipulating public opinion by active measures can lead to policy changes that benefit Russian intelligence/hurt the U.S., in addition to (or enhancing) discrediting U.S. intelligence agencies and hiding their activities.

But maybe more important than that, the Watergate scandal and the ensuing U.S. intelligence scandals gave the KGB material to attempt to discredit the USIC for decades:


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...infowars.com ... globalresearch.ca ... consortiumnews.com ... opednews.com ... thirdworldtraveler.com ... lewrockwell.com ... washingtonsblog.com ... zerohedge.com...


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_President's_Commission_on_CIA_Activities_within_the_United_States
	The commission was created in response to a December 1974 report in The New York Times that the CIA had conducted illegal domestic activities, including experiments on U.S. citizens, during the 1960s. The commission issued a single report in 1975, touching upon certain CIA abuses including mail opening and surveillance of domestic dissident groups. It publicized Project MKUltra, a CIA mind control study.

	It also studied issues relating to the John F. Kennedy assassination, specifically the head snap as seen in the Zapruder film (first shown on television in 1975), and the possible presence of E. Howard Hunt and Frank Sturgis in Dallas, Texas.


http://www.washingtonsblog.com/2016/11/fake-news-cia-director-admitted-us-senate-400-agents-dictate-fake-news-manipulate-americans-rogue-state-empire-easily-documented-ongoing-corporate-media.html
	...revealing 14-minute video, beginning with CIA Director Colby’s testimony to the US Senate for the 1975 Church Committee admitting the CIA directs corporate media how to lie to the American public

	...Fake News ‘covers’ crimes of US government assassinations of President Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, Martin King

	3-minute video of Dan Rather’s fake news from November 25, 1963 to sell the lie that President Kennedy’s fatal head shot caused “violent forward motion” opposite to the fact his head was violently hit to cause backward motion (hat tip What Really Happened)

	...This is part of easily documented history of US rogue state assassinations of President Kennedy, Robert Kennedy (and here) when he was poised to win the 1968 presidency, Martin King when he was poised to “Occupy DC” with a million people in the summer of ’68 until the Vietnam War was ended with those funds redirected to end domestic poverty, and ~100 other assassinations for political purposes. 


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_F._Kennedy_assassination_conspiracy_theories
	In 1977, the FBI released 40,000 files pertaining to the assassination of Kennedy, including an April 3, 1967 memorandum from Deputy Director Cartha DeLoach to Associate Director Clyde Tolson that was written less than a month after President Johnson learned from J. Edgar Hoover about CIA plots to kill Fidel Castro. The memorandum reads: "Marvin Watson [adviser to President Johnson] called me late last night and stated that the president had told him, in an off moment, that he was now convinced that there was a plot in connection with the [JFK] assassination. Watson stated the president felt that [the] CIA had had something to do with plot." Later, Cartha DeLoach testified to the Church Committee that he "felt this to be sheer speculation".


https://www.lewrockwell.com/2013/11/jacob-hornberger/how-they-murdered-jfk-2/
	The National-Security State’s Assassination of John F. Kennedy

	...Sure, we know how the feds treat people like Daniel Ellsberg, Chelsey (Bradley) Manning, John Walker Lindh, and Edward Snowden. They arrest them, they torture them, they abuse them, they prosecute them, and they incarcerate them.

	And we also know how the CIA and the FBI viewed communist sympathizers during the Cold War, such as those in the U.S. Communist Party, the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, and, according to national-security state officials, even the American civil-rights movement. They spied on them, they harassed them, they prosecuted them, they blackmailed them, they incarcerated them, and they ruined them.

	But hey, Lee Harvey Oswald was different, right?

	...Neither the Warren Commission nor the Washington establishment considered Dulles’ appointment to be a conflict of interest because it never occurred to them that the CIA might have been the one who orchestrated and carried out the assassination. It wouldn’t be until the 1970s, during the Church Committee hearings and the House Select Committee hearings, that people would learn that the trust that the Warren Commission had placed in the CIA had been seriously misplaced.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-06-04/putin-hints-jfk-was-murdered-deep-state-which-now-after-trump-and-russia
	Putin Hints JFK Was Murdered By The "Deep State" Which Is Now After Trump And Russia

	by Tyler Durden

	...But the most notable highlight of the interview was Putin's tongue in cheek hint that the Deep State - the same entity that may have been behind the Kennedy assassination according to the Russian president - is now behind the attempt to topple Trump and the ongoing push to sour ties with Russia:

		"There is a theory that Kennedy's assassination was arranged by the United States intelligence services. So if this theory is correct, and that can't be ruled out, then what could be easier in this day and age than using all the technical means at the disposal of the intelligence services and using those means to organize some attacks, and then pointing the finger at Russia." 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-05-14/putin-plays-soviet-classics-badly-tuned-piano-during-china-summit
	Putin Plays Soviet Classics On Badly Tuned Piano During China Silk Road Summit

	by Tyler Durden

	...It was a departure for the president who, as the NYT put it, "has ridden shirtless on a horse in Siberia, piloted a hand glider with migratory birds, swum with dolphins, tossed judo opponents, and dived into the depths of Lake Baikal and the Black Sea." 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-03-31/buchanan-asks-putin-preeminent-statesman-our-times
	Buchanan Asks "Is Putin The 'Preeminent Statesman' Of Our Times?"

	by Tyler Durden

	...Putin’s approval rating, after 17 years in power, exceeds that of any rival Western leader.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2014-11-10/how-putin-rolls
	This Is How Putin Rolls

	by Tyler Durden


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2014-04-27/quest-find-putins-billions
	The Quest To Freeze "Putin's Billions"

	by Tyler Durden

	...Numbers are thrown around suggesting that Mr. Putin may control $40 billion or even $70 billion, in theory making him the richest head of state in world history.


http://www.zerohedge.com/contributed/2013-09-16/mega-putin-rich
	Mega Putin Rich


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-12-25/losers-malice-whats-behind-obamas-attacks-putin
	A Loser's Malice: What's Behind Obama's Attacks On Putin

	by Tyler Durden

	...For Obama, it appears that everything has gotten personal. The US president often acts like a petulant adolescent, jealous of a high school rival.


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/book5/html/ChurchVol5_0004b.htm
	Church Committee Reports

	Book V: The Investigation of the Assassination of President J.F.K.: Performance of the Intelligence Agencies

	...In the days following the assassination of President Kennedy, nothing was more important to this country than to determine the facts of his death; no one single event has shaken the country more. Yet the evidence of the Committee has developed suggests that, for different reasons, both the CIA and the FBI failed in, or avoid carrying out, certain of their responsibilities in this matter.

	The Committee emphasizes that this Report's discussion of investigative deficiencies and the failure of American intelligence agencies to inform the Warren Commission of certain information does not lead to the conclusion that there was a conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.


http://www.globalresearch.ca/jfk-at-100-kennedy-assassinated-by-a-conspiracy-between-the-cia-joint-chiefs-of-staff-and-secret-service/5592608
	JFK at 100. “Kennedy Assassinated by a Conspiracy between the CIA, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Secret Service”

	...Researchers who spent years studying the evidence have concluded that President Kennedy was assassinated by a conspiracy between the CIA, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Secret Service. 


http://www.globalresearch.ca/cia-targeted-assassinations-by-induced-heart-attack-and-cancer/5326382
	CIA Targeted Assassinations by Induced Heart Attack and Cancer

	The 1975 Church Committee hearings

	In 1975, during the Church Committee hearings, the existence of a secret assassination weapon came to light.

	...There was little hesitancy in Jack Ruby killing Lee Harvey Oswald in order to prevent him from talking, so there is no reason to suspect that any more consideration would have been shown Jack Ruby if he had posed a threat to people in the US government who had conspired to murder the president of the United States – John F Kennedy.

	...Mr. Charles Senseney, a CIA weapon developer at Fort Detrick, Maryland, testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee in September 1975 where he described an umbrella poison dart gun he had made. 
	...Video footage of the assassination of John F Kennedy shows this umbrella gun being used in Dealey Plaza. 


https://www.infowars.com/cia-assassination-program-revealed-nothing-new-under-the-sun/
	CIA Assassination Program Revealed: Nothing New Under the Sun

	...Mongoose operatives later worked with the CIA and the Mob to assassinate president John F. Kennedy.

	...As former CIA employee Ralph McGehee documents, the agency fine-tuned this mass murder program in Vietnam. Under Operation Phoenix, the U.S. “neutralized” 81,740 National Liberation Front of South Vietnam members, including the assassination of 26,369 people (a Church Committee Report in 1976 put the number killed at 20,000; see McGehee’s CIA and Operation Phoenix in Vietnam)


http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/Assassinations_page/The_Assassinations_JFK.html
	The Church Committee also heard testimony from Smathers, who stated that once when it was brought up in his presence (presumably by the CIA-friendly Smathers), Kennedy got so mad he smashed a dinner plate and told him he did want to hear of such things again. (Alleged Assassination Plots, p. 124.) Smathers furthered this portrait later when he stated that:

		President Kennedy seemed "horrified" at the idea of political assassination. "I remember him saying that the CIA frequently did things he didn't know about, and he was unhappy about it. He complained that the CIA was almost autonomous. He told me he believed the CIA had arranged to have Diem and Trujillo bumped off. He was pretty well shocked about that. He thought it was a stupid thing to do, and he wanted to get control of what the CIA was doing." (The Assassinations: Dallas and Beyond pp. 379-380)

	Such statements not only absolve Kennedy, they actually provide a motive for the CIA to get rid of him, which is probably why the media ignored them.


https://consortiumnews.com/tag/otis-pike?print=print-search
	When the CIA’s Empire Struck Back

	Exclusive: In the mid-1970s, Rep. Otis Pike led a brave inquiry to rein in the excesses of the national security state. But the CIA and its defenders...


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/book5/html/ChurchVol5_0004b.htm
	Church Committee Reports

	Book V: The Investigation of the Assassination of President J.F.K.: Performance of the Intelligence Agencies

	...Findings

	The Committee emphasizes that it has not uncovered any evidence sufficient to justify a conclusion that there was a conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.

	The Committee has, however, developed evidence which impeaches the process by which the intelligence agencies arrived at their own conclusions about the assassination, and by which they provided information to the Warren Commission. This evidence indicates that the investigation of the assassination was deficient and that facts which might have substantially affected the course or those individuals within the FBI and the CIA, as well as other agencies of Government, who were charged with investigating the assassination.

	The Committee has found that the FBI, the agency with primary responsibility in the matter, was ordered by Director Hoover and pressured by higher government officials, to conclude its investigation quickly.


https://consortiumnews.com/2016/11/21/failed-investigations-of-jfks-murder/
	“It must be said that the FBI generally exhausted its resources in confirming its case against Oswald as the lone assassin,” the HSCA concluded, “a case that Director J. Edgar Hoover, at least, seemed determined to make within 24 hours of the of the assassination.”

	In essence, the experienced investigators concluded that Hoover had divined the solution to the crime before starting the inquiry, and then his agents confirmed the boss’s epiphany. The intimidated Warren Commission went right along.

	...But they don’t tell that Hoover deployed one of his favorite dirty tricks to deal not only with support staffers, such as Willens and Mosk, but also with the commissioners themselves.

	...Thus, despite their clear misgivings, the Commissioners bowed to the imperious FBI chief rather than conduct a thorough investigation.


https://www.reddit.com/r/The_Donald/comments/6h3cme/fbi_vault_drops_the_j_edgar_hoover_files_while/
	FBI Vault drops the J. Edgar Hoover files while everyone is watching the Sessions testimony. Perhaps a hint that Comey knows all about the domestic spying?


https://vault.fbi.gov/j.-edgar-hoover-official-and-confidential-o-c-files
	This posting consists of material that was previously posted on the FBI's original FOIA Reading Room web site and released in hard copy prior to that. It has been digitally enhanced to be more readable.


http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/CIA/Who_Killed_JFK.html
	Evidence of a cover-up

	The evidence that there was a cover-up is just as impressive as the evidence that there was a conspiracy in the first place. Here is a brief run-down, including a couple of points not mentioned above:

	...* Many more witnesses have died than would normally be expected, many in mysterious circumstances.
	* Both the FBI and the CIA concealed important evidence from the Warren Commission....


 	...Who was involved?

	The Soviets

	Two related theories propose that Nikita Khrushchev, humiliated by the 1962 Missile Crisis, instigated the assassination.

	...But the Soviet theory raises more questions than it answers. Why would the USSR risk nuclear war to promote LBJ, a much more militant Cold Warrior than JFK? 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-01-14/will-cia-assassinate-trump-ron-paul-warns-more-powerful-shadow-government
	Will The CIA Assassinate Trump? Ron Paul Warns Of "More Powerful, Shadow Government"

	...If President Trump takes his rogue populism too far, he will suffer the wrath of the same people who took out Kennedy… there are some things that are not tolerated by those who are really in charge.


https://www.infowars.com/33-conspiracy-theories-that-turned-out-to-be-true-what-every-person-should-know/
	33 Conspiracy Theories That Turned Out To Be True, What Every Person Should Know…

	...Kennedy Assassination – the 2nd Investigation by Congress Few People Know About, United States House of Representatives Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA): The HSCA was established in 1976 to investigate the John F. Kennedy assassination and the Martin Luther King, Jr. assassination. The Committee investigated until 1978, and in 1979 issued its final report, concluding that President John F. Kennedy was probably assassinated by a conspiracy involving the mob, and potentially the CIA.

	...To this day, many conspiracy deniers are unaware that the Congressional investigation into JFK’s assassination concluded beyond any shadow of a doubt that it was a conspiracy.  What made them come to this conclusion?  Aside from reading the report, many witnesses (some of whom were CIA agents and station chiefs in Dallas that morning) were killed the night before testifying.  For example, George de Mohrenschildt was a petroleum geologist who befriended Lee Harvey Oswald during the months preceding the assassination of U.S. President John F. Kennedy.  He also worked for the CIA.  He also blew his brains out the night before he was to testify to the committee. The committee also uncovered, among many things, that Oswald left the marines where he learned how to speak fluent Russian (at the height of the cold war).  He was given money by the State Department to travel to Russia where he stopped off in Japan at a top secret US Military facility.  The Warren Commission even mentioned this part.  What most people do not know is that he probably was working in the Cold War infiltrating the Russians as either a “dangle,” “double agent,” or “defector” of some kind. 


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/book5/html/ChurchVol5_0004b.htm
	Church Committee Reports

	Book V: The Investigation of the Assassination of President J.F.K.: Performance of the Intelligence Agencies

	...The Committee has found that even with this narrow focus, the FBI investigation, as well as the CIA inquiry, was deficient on the specific question of the significance of Oswald's contacts with pro-Castro and anti-Castro groups for the many months before the assassination.


http://www.globalresearch.ca/william-pawley-the-kennedy-assassination-and-watergate-tilt-and-the-phase-three-story-of-clare-boothe-luce/5313486
	And Carrozza speculates that the team of Cubans exfiltrated into Cuba for this purpose may have been the team that (according to a John Roselli story published by Jack Anderson) came “back to the United States as the team that killed President Kennedy and set up Oswald as the fall guy.”


https://www.lewrockwell.com/2014/11/no_author/operation-mongoose-and-the-murder-of-jfk/
	The JFK assassination, Cuba policy and Operation Mongoose

	...This period of US history proved to be toxic, with a poisonous legacy that is still felt today. The assassinations of Robert Kennedy, Martin Luther King Jr and Malcolm X followed. Race riots and the Vietnam War would lead to such civil unrest and turmoil that political leaders accelerated the passing of civil rights legislation and wound down the war. The era culminated in Watergate. The Church Committee, named after Senator Frank Church, would eventually be set up in order to investigate the actions of intelligence agencies and how events had spiralled so out of control. The revelations that followed of the FBI’s mass surveillance and wiretapping programme CountelPro and the CIA’s Executive Action programme (code-named ZR/RIFLE) were incendiary. The latter was the CIA’s assassination apparatus, which employed a strategy of plausible deniability in order that the executive could disavow responsibility in the event of exposure. It was directed against various foreign leaders. The Church Committee not only meticulously details the CIA’s failed plots on Castro’s life but also documents the involvement of the CIA with the Mafia in this common aim. The US public would never see their government institutions in the same way again. Faith in government began to crumble the moment those shots rang out in Dealey Plaza.

	Malcolm X was probably closer to the mark than he realized when he commented on the assassination that ‘the chickens had come home to roost’. He was referring to the climate of hate in the US at the time.


The Okhrana might figure that when it comes to informing the public of their clandestine activities, it will come down to their word (or the word of their plausibly deniable surrogates) versus the USIC's. Anything they can grab onto to convince the American public U.S. intelligence agencies can't be trusted is precious. The more Americans distrust their government, the more the Okhrana can get away with.

This is why, I think, the Okhrana has relied and will rely as much as possible on manipulating U.S. intelligence agencies into discrediting themselves. With the CIA Watergate scandals, Hersh did a lot to help, but it was arguably people within the U.S. Government and USIC that did most of the work: Schlesinger, Colby, Angleton, Pike, Church, and others (say, Kissinger). By the Okhrana's calculus, even "burning" a high-level mole to discredit and silence the USIC might be worth it: active measures relies on fooling an uninformed public, and hiding their own activities would be more useful to them overall than keeping tabs on others. And manufacturing a real scandal would have a lot more staying power than just badmouthing the CIA in tabloids and fake news sites.


So, returning to the original question of "what will they try this time?", I think for a few reasons they will once again try to use members of the intelligence community itself to drag U.S. intelligence agencies into another major scandal, although there are some major differences between now and Watergate. With Watergate, Russian propagandists tried to tie the USIC's activities to Vietnam, Nixon, and his unpopular policies (e.g. Hersh's reporting and the Huston plan made it look like the CIA was spying on activists for Nixon). Like Nixon, Trump distrusts U.S. intelligence agencies (and it looks like he reads Russian fake news and actually believes it):


http://www.mcclatchydc.com/news/nation-world/national/national-security/article120497558.html
	How dangerous is Trump’s rejection of daily intelligence briefings?

	President-elect Donald Trump’s weekend statement that he planned not to receive a daily intelligence briefing has exploded into controversy.

	Former U.S. intelligence officers, already feeling angst over some of Trump’s remarks disparaging their work, warned that skipping the daily briefing could leave Trump slow to recognize developing crises

	...Trump told Fox News in an interview aired Sunday that “very good people” are giving him periodic briefings but that he has delegated the daily briefing to Vice President-elect Mike Pence because he doesn’t need to hear “the same thing every day, every morning, same words.”

	...“You know, I’m like a smart person. I don’t have to be told the same thing and the same words every single day for the next eight years,” Trump said.

	The remarks came two days after Trump’s office issued a blistering statement following news reports that the CIA had told legislators that Russian meddling before the Nov. 8 vote had been designed to sway the election in Trump’s favor.

	...Trump is not the first incoming U.S. leader in the past half century to back off from daily intelligence briefings. Richard Nixon, long hostile to the CIA, refused intelligence briefings during the transition following his 1968 election.


http://www.masslive.com/politics/index.ssf/2017/01/president-elect_donald_trump_s_8.html
	President-elect Donald Trump slams intelligence community over dossier, Hillary Clinton email probe

	President-elect Donald Trump continued to take aim at U.S. intelligence officials Friday, contending that they leaked an alleged Russian dossier and were "very nice" to his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton.

	...The president-elect reiterated his suggestion that the dossier was likely released by intelligence officials despite being unsubstantiated.

	"It now turns out that the phony allegations against me were put together by my political opponents and a failed spy afraid of being sued ... Totally made up facts by sleazebag political operatives, both Democrats and Republicans - FAKE NEWS!" he tweeted. "Russia says nothing exists. Probably ... released by 'Intelligence' even knowing there is no proof, and never will be."


https://www.infowars.com/drudge-are-corrupt-us-intel-agencies-blackmailing-trump/
	Drudge: “Are Corrupt US Intel Agencies Blackmailing Trump?”
	Independent media kingpin thinks CIA may be using its 'own dirt'


https://milo.yiannopoulos.net/2017/04/trump-retweet-drudge/
	The President Of The United States Just Retweeted Drudge Report

		Donald J. Trump Retweeted	
		DRUDGE REPORT @DRUDGE_REPORT
		RICE ORDERED SPY DOCS ON TRUMP?

		Former US Attorney: Susan Rice Ordered Spy Agen..

		'Tremendous abuse of the system'


	...President Donald Trump retweeted Drudge Report this morning, prompting mass triggering and hysteria on the left.


https://www.infowars.com/ex-cia-agent-evan-mcmullin-donald-trump-is-a-domestic-enemy/
	Ex-CIA Agent Evan McMullin: Donald Trump is a “Domestic Enemy”
	2016 presidential candidate sides with deep state coup


https://www.infowars.com/trump-tweets-infowars-liberals-go-into-meltdown/
	Trump Tweets Infowars; Liberals Go Into Meltdown
	Major butt-hurt after Republican frontrunner links to article about Muslims celebrating 9/11

		Donald J. Trump
		@realdDonaldTrump

		I LIVE IN NEW JERSEY & @realDonaldTrump is RIGHT: MUSLIMS DID CELEBRATE ON 9/11 HERE! WE SAW IT! infowars.com/i-live-in-jers...


https://www.infowars.com/special-report-the-cia-threatens-trump/
	Schumer Says Intel Agencies Could ‘Get Back At’ Trump Over Tweets
	'You take on the intelligence community - they have 6 ways from Sunday at getting back at you'


https://www.infowars.com/cia-director-warns-trump-to-watch-what-he-says-be-careful-on-russia/
	CIA director warns Trump to watch what he says, be careful on Russia
	"What I do find outrageous is equating intelligence community with Nazi Germany"

	CIA Director John Brennan on Sunday had a stern parting message for Republican Donald Trump days before he assumes the U.S. presidency, cautioning him against loosening sanctions on Russia and warning him to watch what he says.


https://www.infowars.com/trump-asks-twitter-followers-if-outgoing-cia-boss-john-brennan-was-behind-russian-dirty-dossier-leak/
	Trump Asks Twitter followers if outgoing CIA boss John Brennan was behind Russian dirty dossier leak

		Donald J. Trump
		@realDonaldTrump

		@FoxNews "Outgoing CIA Chief, John Brenan, blasts Pres-Elect Trump on Russia threat. Does not fully understand." Oh really, couldn't do much worse - just look at Syria (red line), Crimea, Ukraine, and the build-up of Russian nukes. Not good! Was this the leaker of Fake News?


https://www.infowars.com/trump-fbi-is-totally-unable-to-stop-the-national-security-leakers/
	Trump: “FBI Is Totally Unable to Stop the National Security Leakers”
	President rips subversives in failing national security agency

		The FBI is totally unable to stop the national security "leakers" that have permeated our government for a long time. They can't even……

		— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 24, 2017

		find the leakers within the FBI itself. Classified information is being given to media that could have a devastating effect on U.S. FIND NOW

    		— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 24, 2017


https://www.infowars.com/report-trump-set-to-overhaul-politicized-intelligence-agencies/
	Report: Trump Set To Overhaul ‘Politicized’ Intelligence Agencies
	"They all need to be slimmed down"


http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/334272-trump-told-russians-firing-nut-job-comey-eased-pressure-on-him-report
	"I just fired the head of the F.B.I. He was crazy, a real nut job," Trump said, according to a report based on a summary of the meeting obtained by the Times. 


https://www.infowars.com/breaking-trump-has-been-planning-his-whole-life-to-take-down-nwo/
	BREAKING: Trump Has Been Planning His Whole Life To Take Down [New World Order]
	POTUS has been preparing for this battle for decades


But this time, it is widely reported that U.S. intelligence and President Trump are at odds. It wouldn't make sense to discredit the USIC by tying their activities to Trump's policies. Actually, Russia's propaganda plays-up the fight between the USIC and Trump, and often paints U.S. intelligence as some kind of rouge, all-powerful, all-evil global shadow network that ignores the American public and elected officials:


https://www.infowars.com/cnns-bash-admits-comey-memo-is-deep-state-revenge-against-trump/
	CNN’s Bash Admits Comey Memo is “Deep State” Revenge Against Trump
	They "know how to get back, even if you're the president"


https://www.infowars.com/breaking-deep-state-wants-war-with-russia-to-stop-trump/
	Breaking: Deep State Wants War With Russia To Stop Trump
	Global elite plan on causing worldwide mayhem defeat Trump

	The deep state is pushing war with Russia seeing it as their only option to keep Donald Trump from reviving America.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-06-19/deep-state-operatives-attempt-coup-detat-donald-trump
	Deep State Operatives Attempt A Coup D'Etat Of Donald Trump

	Presidential historian and author Doug Wead claims that the deep state, which has successfully overthrown the governments of foreign countries, is going to continue to actively seek a coup d’etat of the duly elected president of the United States.

	If there was ever a time in history to be concerned about another rise in communism, now is that time. Wead says that the deep state is determined to overthrow Donald Trump. The presidential historian refused to mince words, saying:

    		We have very skilled, talented professionals. They’ve overthrown governments in Vietnam and the Philippines, in Iraq and Iran, in Egypt, in the Ukraine. Duly elected democratic governments.

    		They created what they called 'popular uprisings'...

		Here we go, let's try this is America...

		There's no going back."

	Of course, we should expect nothing less from shadow governments. The very same people who work in the State Department, some of them in intelligence, and some of them in the media, have successfully caused uprisings in several other countries.


http://observer.com/2016/08/did-nsa-try-to-destroy-hillary-clinton/
	Did NSA Try to Destroy Hillary Clinton?

	Allegations are circulating that the National Security Agency may be behind the massive hack of Hillary Clinton and her party

	By John R. Schindler 

	...However, possible NSA culpability has been floated by a far more reputable source recently, and it’s making waves.

	In a recent radio interview, William Binney, a former NSA senior mathematician, stated that disgruntled American spies could be behind the hack of the DNC, adding that NSA is in possession of all of Hillary Clinton’s emails, including the more than 30,000 deleted by the Democratic presidential nominee and her staff in the EmailGate scandal. Let’s be clear: Bill Binney is no flake. ... He became a genuine whistleblower, attempting to raise Congressional awareness of what he viewed as disastrous decisions by NSA leadership. Binney paid a steep price for this, including having his security clearances revoked, causing substantial lost income, while his home was raided by the FBI—which ultimately found no wrongdoing.

	This experience seems to have soured Binney, and since Snowden defected to Moscow in mid-2013, he’s gotten close to the Snowden-Wikileaks axis, which is under Vladimir Putin’s control. He’s not as measured as he used to be in his public comments about NSA...


https://sputniknews.com/us/201605311040567328-loud-clear-binney-nsa/
	William Binney: NSA Surveillance Takes a Page From Nazi Germany


https://sputniknews.com/interviews/201602261035360348-fbi-defrauding-us-public-in-apple-feud/
	Binney accused the government of “a power grab. It is the same fearmongering they did after 9/11 and with cybersecurity and so on. Make people afraid so that you can manipulate them any way you want and they’ll let you do anything that you tell them that you need to do in order to keep them safe.”


https://www.rt.com/op-edge/370465-russia-hacking-claims-nsa-binney/
	Binney said he thinks the accusation is political motivated. One argument has been a neo-con drive towards sustaining military budgets as the country moves from a “war on terror” toward a “new Cold War.”

	“Certainly, that’s behind some of it. Hillary Clinton and a number of people were going that way, and certainly the military intelligence complex fosters that because that means for a “new Cold War” trillions of dollars going into the coffers of those people, they would certainly be advocates for this thing. There is a lot of vested interest to keep this kind of thing going,” Binney added.

	Binney said Julian Assange has already said publicly it was not the Russians, but “a leaker inside.”

	“If the CIA is alleging a different story, they need to produce the evidence like they did on the Chinese hack,” Binney said. “There is no reason to withhold this kind of information, especially if they can prove it and so far as I can see they won’t even brief the House Intelligence Committee on the evidence they are using to make this statement. That tells me that what they are saying is a pack of crap.”

	“That are just concocting these things to support the existing administration and to also support the move toward a new Cold War.”


http://www.globalresearch.ca/intelligence-officer-who-personally-met-the-democratic-email-leaker-confirms-leaker-is-with-american-intelligence-service-not-russia/5562153
	We’ve repeatedly shown that it’s much more likely that American insiders – not Russian hackers – leaked the Clinton emails.

	...Binney has previously explained to us that a Russian hack would have looked very different, and that he thought the hack may have been conducted by an NSA employee who was upset at Clinton’s careless handling of America’s most sensitive intelligence.

	The former intelligence analyst, British Ambassador to Uzbekistan, and chancellor of the University of Dundee (Craig Murray) – who is close friends with Wikileaks’ Julian Assange – said he knows with 100% certainty that the Russians aren’t behind the leaks.


http://observer.com/2016/08/did-nsa-try-to-destroy-hillary-clinton/
	...It’s not difficult to determine why NSA might want to put a halt to Clinton’s presidential ambitions. The agency has viewed her with distaste for years, beginning with her antics as the newly appointed Secretary of State in early 2009, when her demands to disregard basic security regulations about her Blackberry raised the ire of the agency’s information assurance experts. Some at NSA saw the disaster of EmailGate developing, and were powerless to stop it.

	...Disclosure: Donald Trump is the father-in-law of Jared Kushner, the publisher of Observer Media.


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2015-09-24/forget-new-world-order-heres-who-really-runs-world?page=1
	Forget The New World Order, Here's Who Really Runs The World

	For decades, extreme ideologies on both the left and the right have clashed over the conspiratorial concept of a shadowy secret government pulling the strings on the world’s heads of state and captains of industry.

	The phrase New World Order is largely derided as a sophomoric conspiracy theory entertained by minds that lack the sophistication necessary to understand the nuances of geopolitics. But it turns out the core idea — one of deep and overarching collusion between Wall Street and government with a globalist agenda — is operational in what a number of insiders call the “Deep State.”


http://beforeitsnews.com/self-sufficiency/2015/11/new-world-order-2016-the-elites-nwo-agenda-is-almost-complete-martial-law-in-u-s-nov-2015-2497348.html
	The CIA, NSA, DIA, and other much more secret entities within the national intelligence community both possess and have access to the most advanced monitoring technologies in the world. Since most of their employees are agents of Deep State first, and answerable to the American people second, they think nothing of “bugging” the POTUS.

	...Key Point: The British Empire had various incentives for establishing its own Deep State with the chartering of the East India Company in 1600.  Likewise, so did all the other empires that came before to include the Roman Empire, the Greek Empire and Pharaonic dynasties of Egypt.  What is less known is that with each successive empire, the Deep State became considerably deeper and broader.  Given the US-UK Empire that currently stretches across the planet, it can be said that Deep State has never been so deep and pervasive, as it is highly proficient in the art of spying and science of surveillance.


I believe this "fight" between the USIC and Trump and the idea of U.S. intelligence agencies going "rouge" would be a key part of any forthcoming plan to discredit the USIC. With Trump (and arguably the current U.S. Congress), the UISC faces a dilemma: how do they protect the American people from elected officials acting on behalf of the hostile foreign power (wittingly or otherwise) while respecting the principles of democracy, limited government, and the law? Our intelligences agencies have to walk a tight-rope: if they do too little, they fail to protect us from a major threat. If they screw up or do too much, it raises questions of our intelligences agencies overstepping their bounds.

This question has been raised essentially in the Congressional hearings on Russia's activities, where some members of Congress skip talking about Russia to focus on leaks to the press from the intelligence community:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	GOWDY: ...FISA and other similar related counterterrorism programs have been described, even this morning, as vital, critical and indispensable to our national security. And many of us on both sides of the aisle believe FISA and similar counterterrorism programs prevent terrorist attacks and save American lives.

	But FISA and other surveillance programs are intentionally designed to preserve the privacy of U.S. citizens. They are intentionally designed to ensure the information is collected and used only for legitimate national security and criminal investigative purposes.

	...The way I view it, Director Comey, the American people have an agreement with their government. We are going to give you the tools to keep us safe, even if it infringes on our privacy Psalm (ph). We're going to give you the tools. And government in return promises to safeguard the privacy of U.S. citizens. And when that deal is broken, it jeopardizes American trust in the surveillance program.

	So let me ask you, do you agree FISA is critical to our national security?

	COMEY: I do.

	GOWDY: Do you agree programs like FISA were intentionally designed to safeguard the identity of U.S. persons?

	COMEY: Yes, there are other -- other important elements of it but that's a primary goal, I believe.

	GOWDY: It wasn't an afterthought, it wasn't an accident. These are intentional safeguards that we put in place to protect U.S. citizens, is that correct?

	COMEY: Correct.

	GOWDY: Do you agree much of what is learned from these programs is classified or otherwise legally protected?

	COMEY: All FISA applications review by the court collection by us pursuant to our FISA authority is classified.

	GOWDY: The dissemination of which is a felony punishable by up to 10 years in prison?

	COMEY: Sure, dissemination -- unauthorized dissemination. GOWDY: Unauthorized dissemination of classified or otherwise legally protected material punishable by a felony up to 10 years in federal prison.

	COMEY: Yes. Yes, as it should be.

	GOWDY: All right.

	In January of this year, the Washington Post reported, according to a senior U.S. government official, a named U.S. citizen -- and I will not use the name -- a named U.S. citizen phoned the Russian ambassador several times on December 29.

	In February of this year, the Washington Post reported nine, nine current and former officials who were in senior positions at multiple agencies at the time of the call, spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence matters and that officials began pouring over intelligence reports, intercepted communications, and diplomatic cables.

	In February of this year, the New York Times reported a U.S. citizen, whose name I will not use, discusses sanctions with the Russian ambassador in a phone call according to officials who have seen a transcript of the wiretapped conversation. And again in February of this year, the New York Times reported on a phone call involving a U.S. citizen including significant discussions of phone records, intercepted calls, intercepted communications, and reported the NSA captured calls and then asked the FBI to collect as much information as possible.

	My time is up so I will say this for this round. I thought it was against the law to disseminate classified information. Is it?

	COMEY: Yes, sir. It's a serious crime. I'm not going to comment on those particular articles because I don't want to, in any circumstance, compound a criminal act by confirming that it was classified information but in general, yes, it's a serious crime and it should be for the reasons you said.

	GOWDY: We'll take it back up next round, Mr. Chairman.


http://insider.foxnews.com/2017/05/24/gowdy-surveillance-programs-wont-be-reauthorized-until-unmasking-questions-answered
	Gowdy: Surveillance Programs Won't Be Renewed Until 'Unmasking' Questions Answered

	Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-SC) said this morning that key surveillance programs won't be reauthorized by Congress until questions about intelligence "unmasking" are answered. 


(Also FWIW, Gowdy is suspicious for a lot of reasons, which could be the subject of their own write-up...


https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2013/05/why-calls-impeachment-obama-are-inevitable/315338/
	Why Calls for Impeachment of Obama Are Inevitable

	Could what happened in Benghazi lead to an impeachment of the president?

	John McCain, asked about the issue on ABC yesterday, said he didn't know "what level of scandal, unquote, this rises to," but that a "select committee" was needed to interview those involved.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/right-turn/post/doesnt-obama-owe-us-answers/2012/10/29/965da2fa-21d2-11e2-8448-81b1ce7d6978_blog.html
	SCHIEFFER: Well, I was just going to say, senator, you have called for declassifying the drone pictures. Apparently there were drone pictures. Why — have you seen those pictures, senator?

	MCCAIN: No, I have not. But what I do know is, that those in the surveillance records from inside and around the consulate will show that there was no demonstration. The Turkish ambassador left his — the consulate and said good-bye to Chris Stevens at 8:30 at night. There was no demonstration.

	So for literally days and days, they told the American people something that had no basis in fact whatsoever. And that is the president of the United States. And so, also, by the way, he said he immediately ordered action to be taken. Well, no action was taken over seven hours. Now we find out the secretary of Defense decided not to take any action.

	You know, somebody the other day said to me this is as bad as Watergate. Well, nobody died in Watergate. But this is either a massive cover-up or incompetence that is not acceptable service to the American people.


https:/www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/10/22/transcript-clinton-testifies-before-house-committee-on-benghazi/
	POMPEO: There was an e-mail that was from Mr. Blumenthal and (inaudible) before that, also discussing the same situation. Do you know who Mark Turrey (ph) is?

	CLINTON: No, I don't recall that I know who that is.

	POMPEO: He was a private trafficker in weapons. He was working with Mr. Stevens and attempting to develop an authorization with the State Department so that he could in fact deliver those weapons into Libya. Does that -- any of that ring a bell to you?

	CLINTON: No, it does not.

	POMPEO: So you never saw the e-mail that was from Mr. Stevens to -- I think it went to Mr. Sullivan, where he says to Mr. Turrey (ph), this is Mr. Stevens now, says to Mr. Turrey (ph): "Thank you for this information" -- this information about his attempts to get authority to ship arms into Libya. He says, "Thank you for this information. I'll keep it in mind and share it with my colleagues in Washington. Regards, Chris." Actually, "regards, Chris Stevens."

	CLINTON: I -- I don't know anything about that specifically. 


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/10/marc-turi-libyan-rebels-hillary-clinton-229115
	Obama DOJ drops charges against alleged broker of Libyan weapons

	Arms dealer had threatened to expose Hillary Clinton’s talks about arming anti-Qadhafi rebels.

	The Obama administration is moving to dismiss charges against an arms dealer it had accused of selling weapons that were destined for Libyan rebels.

	Lawyers for the Justice Department on Monday filed a motion in federal court in Phoenix to drop the case against the arms dealer, an American named Marc Turi, whose lawyers also signed the motion.

	The deal averts a trial that threatened to cast additional scrutiny on Hillary Clinton’s private emails as Secretary of State, and to expose reported Central Intelligence Agency attempts to arm rebels fighting Libyan leader Moammar Qadhafi.

	...Representatives of the Justice Department, the White House and Clinton’s presidential campaign either declined to comment or did not respond to requests for comment on the case or the settlement.

	Turi was indicted in 2014 on four felony counts: two of arms dealing in violation of the Arms Export Control Act and two of lying to the State Department in official applications. The charges accused Turi of claiming that the weapons involved were destined for Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, when the arms were actually intended to reach Libya.


http://www.latimes.com/world/africa/la-fg-house-benghazi-20141123-story.html
	GOP panel on Benghazi finds no Obama administration wrongdoing 

	...After the attacks, Republicans criticized the Obama administration and its then-secretary of State, Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is expected to run for president in 2016.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/wp/2016/06/28/house-benghazi-report-reveals-little-new-information-about-hillary-clinton/
	Rep. Trey Gowdy on Tuesday defended his committee’s lengthy and expansive Benghazi probe, saying that it was intended to reveal the facts and not to torpedo Hillary Clinton’s presidential chances.

	The South Carolina Republican, a former federal prosecutor, insisted that former House speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) and current speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) never “asked me to do anything about presidential politics” on the panel, which was formed in May 2014.

	“My job is to report facts,” Gowdy told reporters. “You can draw whatever conclusions you want to draw.”

	...Gowdy has said the email server was never a focus of his investigation, but the discovery has sparked several probes and dogged Clinton’s presidential bid.


https://www.infowars.com/trey-gowdy-says-no-to-impeachment-have-you-met-joe-biden/
	Trey Gowdy says no to impeachment: ‘Have you met Joe Biden?’
	Cited a number of reasons why impeachment would be folly

	Republican bulldog Rep. Trey Gowdy put the kibosh on the idea of impeaching President Obama during a nationally television Fox News interview, telling his broadcast audience that booting the commander-in-chief from his office would open the doors to something even worse —the ascension of Vice President Joseph R. Biden.


http://www.nbcnews.com/id/37982175/ns/us_news-security/t/spy-case-us-russia-play-down-fallout/
	The scandal over an alleged Russian spy ring erupted at an awkward time for a White House that has staked its foreign policy record on improved cooperation with Moscow, but it appeared unlikely to do lasting damage to U.S.-Russian relations.

	The administration sought to dampen tensions, while the Russian government offered the conciliatory hope Tuesday that U.S. authorities would "show proper understanding, taking into account the positive character of the current stage of development of Russian-American relations."

	The White House response was notably restrained following the dramatic announcement that 11 people assigned a decade or more to illegally infiltrate American society had been arrested. They are accused of using fake names and claims of U.S. citizenship to burrow into U.S. society and ferret out intelligence as Russian "illegals" — spies operating without diplomatic cover.

	White House spokesman Robert Gibbs labored to show that the arrests were a law enforcement matter — one not driven by the president, even though President Barack Obama was informed — and played down any political consequences.

	Obama was asked about the matter by reporters twice Tuesday. He declined to comment both times. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/three-white-house-officials-tied-to-files-shared-with-house-intelligence-chairman/2017/03/30/de4b8c30-1589-11e7-9e4f-09aa75d3ec57_story.html
	The interview took place after the New York Times reported that the Obama White House, fearing the new administration would sweep it under the rug, had spread information about Russian efforts to undermine the presidential election. Farkas said, “I was urging my former colleagues and . . . the Hill people, get as much information as you can, get as much intelligence as you can, before President Obama leaves the administration.”

	“That’s why there were so many leaks,” said Farkas, now a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council.

	...Farkas, in an interview with The Post, said she “didn’t give anybody anything except advice,” was not a source for any stories and had nothing to leak. Noting that she left government in October 2015, she said, “I was just watching like anybody else, like a regular spectator” as initial reports of Russia contacts began to surface after the election.

	As a former staff member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and a former Defense official involved with Russian affairs, she said she “got worried” that the Obama White House was not briefing Congress on what it knew. “I know how the Russians operate,” she said, and called former colleagues to make sure Congress was being informed.


http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/presidential-races/305065-obama-on-election-the-sun-will-rise-in-the-morning
	Obama on election: 'The sun will rise in the morning'


http://money.cnn.com/2016/12/16/technology/obama-us-vulnerable-to-hacking/
	US more vulnerable to hacking than Russia, Obama says


http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/cia-prepping-possible-cyber-strike-against-russia-n666636
	CIA Prepping for Possible Cyber Strike Against Russia

	Vice President Joe Biden told “Meet the Press” moderator Chuck Todd on Friday that “we’re sending a message” to Putin and that “it will be at the time of our choosing, and under the circumstances that will have the greatest impact.” 


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NXUgqzXMvyQ
	VP Joe Biden Says Russians Should have taken Rush Limbaugh in Spy Swap


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/23/house-oversight-no-russia-investigation-trey-gowdy-239904
	Gowdy: Oversight panel won't pursue Russia, obstruction probes

	His approach differs sharply from that of outgoing Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz, who is resigning at the end of June

	Newly-elected House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Trey Gowdy does not plan to investigate Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election or questions of whether President Donald Trump obstructed justice.)


This is why the appearance of "fake Trump scandals" like Trump leaking the classified name of a city or Kushner wanting a Russian back-channel are important. Leaking classified information is illegal, no matter how important that information is for the public to know. But the American system is designed to stifle tyranny--if the President has abused his power, and that information is classified, leaking that information is in line with the spirit of the law, if not the letter of the law.

But what if U.S. intelligence agencies leaked evidence of Presidential abuse of power that is misleading, even falsified? What if that information lead to the President's impeachment? The scandal would be spectacular--as would the stain on the intelligence community.

This is what I believe Russian intelligence is planning next: creating a massive and mostly fake scandal, ostensibly to take down Trump, that will instead take down the mainstream media and U.S. intelligence agencies.

Much of why I suspect this comes from taking a closer look at the actions of former FBI Director Comey. Recently, a lot of people have been pushing the idea that Trump should be impeached specifically for firing Comey. But an impeachment featuring Trump's word versus Comey's would be, to put it lightly, a political minefield.

Part of this comes from Comey's strange affinity for the aforementioned dirty dossier, featured in his recent testimony. But maybe the biggest mine in the minefield is Comey's double-standard in his handling of Clinton's email case and Trump's obstruction of justice case. The gist of it is that Comey has set up himself and his word to be the linchpin of an impeachment case against Trump, while simultaneously setting up himself to be easily discredited in a highly politicized way, taking the case--and potentially the credibility of the USIC and mainstream media--down with him.


https://pastebin.com/ipNjLvKv
