Any investigation into Trump's motive for firing Yates or Comey would likely reveal this apparent blackmail scheme by Comey and "leakers" in the USIC, but it wouldn't be as likely to reveal that Comey and certain journalists in the Washington Post and New York Times are Russian agents. The way things are set up now, the investigation to impeach Trump, which would be highly publicized, would probably lead to revelations of (real or apparent) wrongdoing by (real or apparent) members of U.S. intelligence agencies.

Such an episode would likely be highly divisive, especially if it centers on an investigation into Trump's firing of Comey: the American public is already divided between left and right behind Comey and Trump, and both have given ambiguous, erroneous accounts of the events. Trump had a very good alibi to fire Comey (put succinctly in Rosenstein's memo), but it's not clear if the good reasons were the reasons Trump fired him. On top of that, even the alibi itself is probably divisive--Clinton is still polarizing, and one can imagine the political left would have a harder time seeing how Comey mishandled his recommendation not to prosecute, and the right wouldn't care as much about Comey's puzzling Oct 28 letter.

The double standard between Comy's handling of the Clinton email case and the Trump obstruction of justice case is important here. The difference is almost comical:


http://www.thompsontimeline.com/congressional-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey/
	CHAFFETZ: You did not look at testimony that Hillary Clinton gave in the United State Congress, both the House and the Senate.

	...Did you review and look at those transcripts as to the intent of your recommendation.

	COMEY: I’m sure my folks did. I did not.

	...DESJARLAIS: OK. Do you know if she asked her whether she stands by the fact she that said she just used one device and that was for her convenience?

	COMEY: I don’t know. I know they established, in talking to her, she used many devices during her four years. So I don’t know whether they asked her specifically about that statement. That’s easy to check, though.

	DESJARLAIS: OK. I guess my point is, you’re trying to get inside the head of Hillary Clinton in this investigation and know whether there was intent. And so we all know what she told the people. That has been well-documented.

	She said that she did not do those things, that she did not send or receive classified e-mails, that she used one server and one device for her convenience.

	And since then, I think even in your statement, you recognize that those were not correct. Is that fair?

	COMEY: I really don’t want to get in the business of trying to parse and judge her public statements. And so I think I’ve tried to avoid doing that sitting here.

	DESJARLAIS: Why do you feel that’s important?

	COMEY: Because what matters to me is what did she say to the FBI.


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	SEN. DIANNE FEINSTEIN: Thanks very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Comey, I just want you to know that I have great respect for you. Senator Cornyn and I sit on the judiciary committee and we have the occasion to have you before us. You're a man of strength and I regret the situations we all find ourselves in. I just want to say that. Let me begin with one overarching question. Why do you believe you were fired?

	COMEY: I guess I don't know for sure. I believe — I think the president, at his word, that I was fired because of the Russia investigation. Something about the way I was conducting it, the president felt created pressure on him that he wanted to relieve. Again, I didn't know that at the time. I watched his interview. I read the press accounts of his conversations. I take him at his word there. Look, I could be wrong. Maybe he's saying something that's not true. I take him at his word, at least based on what I know now. 


That Comey ignored Clinton's public statements before letting her off without a trial yet twisted Trump's statements to drag him into one likely isn't the worst of it. With the exception of the Jan 27th dinner, Comey interpreted his conversations with Trump in such a way as to make him look as guilty as possible, and it's a safe bet that Comey has been selective about what he's decided to reveal in his testimony. If "tapes" of his conversations exist--and they likely do (https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/vol47no1/article02.html)--their release could be used to set off a political firestorm.

The media have mostly played-up Comey and his opinions about Trump's alleged requests about Flynn and the Russia investigation as the evidence that will finally bring him down, and Comey's memos have been singled out as a key piece of evidence. If proof that Comey misrepresented his conversations were released, the ensuing scandal could be exploited to blight trust in the media, the justice system, and U.S. intelligence agencies.

After Watergate, Hersh painted Angelton as the representative of the "cold warriors" in the CIA, and his scandals became the CIA's scandals. So long as the public views Comey and U.S. intelligence agencies as on the same "team," scandals around Comey could come down on them too:


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/fbi-comey-my-homey-shirts-family-day_us_5956f33de4b05c37bb7e8532
	FBI Employees Wear ‘Comey Is My Homey’ Shirts To Family Day
	The show of support appears to challenge Trump’s claim of an unpopular former director.

	By Dana Liebelson ,  Jessica Schulberg

	WASHINGTON ― Some FBI employees and their guests wore “Comey is my homey” T-shirts to the bureau’s Family Day in Washington on Friday in what appeared to be an unofficial show of support for former FBI Director James Comey, who was fired in May by President Donald Trump.

	At least a dozen people wore matching #ComeyIsMyHomey shirts, according to social media postings.

https://twitter.com/dliebelson/status/881286330025639938
	kindaaaa looks like #comeyismyhomey is trending since our story & lololol


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/fbi-comey-my-homey-shirts-family-day_us_5956f33de4b05c37bb7e8532
	When Comey was fired, he was overseeing the FBI’s investigation into whether Trump’s campaign associates colluded with Russian attempts to interfere in last year’s presidential election. The White House initially said Trump fired Comey at the recommendation of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who drafted a memo outlining criticisms of Comey’s handling of the probe into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. But Trump later told NBC he planned to fire Comey regardless of Rosenstein’s recommendation because he was fed up with the Russia investigation. 

	Comey has since emerged as an unlikely star among opponents of the Trump administration. Once accused of tilting the election in Trump’s favor with his pronouncements on the Clinton email saga, Comey now appears well-poised to reveal damaging information about the president. Shortly after he was fired, Comey leaked memos he wrote while still head of the FBI describing Trump’s bizarre demand for loyalty and a request that the bureau drop its investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn. Comey later confirmed both of those incidents in a public congressional hearing. Nearly 20 million people watched that hearing, with some skipping work to tune in from bars.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/06/politics/donald-trump-james-comey/index.html
	How the James Comey hearing is Washington's Super Bowl

	...Those expectations have only increased as Trump has taken his distaste for Comey public -- calling him a "showboat" in an interview with NBC's Lester Holt and, reportedly, a "nut job" in an Oval Office meeting with Russian Ambassador to the US Sergey Kislyak and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/31/us/politics/james-comey-testify-trump-russia-fbi.html
	Comey Expected to Testify Before Senate, if He Isn’t Blocked

	By MATT APUZZO and MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

	...Putting the highly anticipated hearing on the calendar would force Mr. Trump to decide whether to invoke executive privilege and try to prevent Mr. Comey from testifying. Mr. Comey is expected to be asked about several conversations he had with the president, including one in which he says Mr. Trump encouraged him to stop investigating his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn.


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/fbi-comey-my-homey-shirts-family-day_us_5956f33de4b05c37bb7e8532
	Trump at one point raised the possibility on Twitter that he had recordings of his conversations with Comey — a statement that turned out to be baseless and looks to have been intended to undermine Comey’s credibility. One Family Day attendee wore a button that riffed off Comey’s Senate testimony: “Lordy, I hope there are tapes.”

	Within the FBI, Comey’s ouster feels particularly personal. Despite the White House’s claim that he had lost confidence of “rank and file” FBI employees, Comey still enjoyed broad support within the bureau, Acting Director Andrew McCabe testified at a Senate hearing in May. And even some of Comey’s detractors saw Trump’s move to fire him as an inappropriate effort to shut down the investigation. 


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/wikileaks-conspiracy-theory-hillary-clinton_us_57d6f4b2e4b00642712ebbd0
	WikiLeaks Feeds Conspiracy Theories That Hillary Clinton Has Parkinson’s Or Head Injury Complications

	By Dana Liebelson

	WikiLeaks is feeding conspiracy theories that Hillary Clinton is not telling the truth about her health

	...But that hasn’t stopped her critics from claiming she suffers from a litany of illnesses, continuing a long pattern of sexist accusations


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2002%20of%2010/view
	pg 9

	CLINTON stated she received no instructions or direction regarding the preservation or production of records from State during the transition out of her role as Secretary of State in early 2016. However, in December 2012, CLINTON suffered a concussion and then around the New Year had a blood clot. Based on her doctors advice, she could only work at State for a few hours a day and could not recall every briefing she received.


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/which-hillary-hashtag-twitter-censorship_us_56d4cc2ce4b03260bf77e7e9
	The Latest Hillary Clinton Conspiracy Theory Doesn’t Make Sense
	By Dana Liebelson


At the same time, if the Russians are able to release proof that Comey or McCabe bungled the email investigation or caved to political pressure, it could be a recipe for staging the perfect political disaster--the USIC would have obstructed justice for a corrupt, "establishment" politician before wrongly accusing the underdog, "anti-establishment" politician of the same--or so it would appear, anyway.

This would bolster Russia's propaganda narrative of the evil "deep state" covering for corrupt, pro-war elitists while undermining anti-war "populists" like Trump, and give them ammunition to paint Trump as a victim.

Arguably, after Comey's testimony Russian intelligence doesn't even need to leak anything to pull some of these off. They'd just need to draw media attention to what's already there:


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/08/full-text-james-comey-trump-russia-testimony-239295
	COLLINS: Finally, did you show copies of your memos to anyone outside of the department of justice?

	COMEY: Yes.

	COLLINS: And to whom did you show copies?

	COMEY: I asked — the president tweeted on Friday after I got fired that I better hope there's not tapes. I woke up in the middle of the night on Monday night because it didn't dawn on me originally, that there might be corroboration for our conversation. There might a tape. My judgment was, I need to get that out into the public square. I asked a friend of mine to share the content of the memo with a reporter. Didn't do it myself for a variety of reasons. I asked him to because I thought that might prompt the appointment of a special counsel. I asked a close friend to do it. 


	...CORNYN: And were you aware Ms. Lynch had been requested numerous times to appoint a special counsel and had refused.

	COMEY: Yes. From, I think, Congress had — members of congress had repeatedly asked, yes, sir.

	CORNYN: Yours truly did on multiple occasions. And that heightened your concerns about the appearance of a conflict of interest with the Department of Justice which caused you to make what you have described as an incorrectly painful decision to basically take the matter up yourself and led to that July press conference?

	COMEY: Yes, sir. I ask — after President Clinton, former President Clinton met on the plane with the attorney general, I considered whether I should call for the appointment of a special counsel. And decided that would be an unfair thing to do because I knew there was no case there. We investigated it very, very thoroughly. I know this is a subject of passionate disagreement but I knew there was no case there. And calling for the appointment of special counsel would be brutally unfair because it would send the message, uh-huh, there's something here. That's my judgment. Lots of people have different views about it but that's what I thought about it. 


https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton/Hillary%20R.%20Clinton%20Part%2006%20of%2010/view
	pg 35

	United States Senate
	Committee on the Judiciary

	Dear Director Comey,

	I am writing in regards to the FBI's ongoing investigation relating to Secretary Clinton's use of a non-government server and email address for her official State Department business. In particular, I am writing to raise concerns about the appearance of a conflict of interest by Justice Department officials and to seek your input about possible remedies.

	...The Justice Department has a mechanism in place to deal with such conflicts, namely, appointing a Special Counsel...


Clinton has been reliably useful to the Russians, and it doesn't look like that's changed. Clinton might have even Trump beat as the more divisive political figure--she managed to overload polarization between Republicans and Democrats while splitting Democrats into the sometimes bitter rivals of the "Sanders" and "Clinton" camps.

A major source of her divisive power is the perception that she cheats and gets away with it: Sanders and Clinton supporters fought over the DNC's pro-Clinton manipulation of the Democratic primaries, and Republicans and Democrats fought over Clinton escaping justice for her email server. The whole point of elections and the Justice System is that they're supposed to be fair, but Comey has just given everybody some pretty solid evidence that the Justice System is unfair (at least when he's involved), with Clinton as the beneficiary. And if the 2016 election has taught us anything, that's a way to make people very, very angry.

Drawing attention to Comey's double-standard would bring Clinton back into the spotlight and re-open the scars she helped inflict on American society (they might have other options, such as releasing evidence of vote tampering, real or otherwise). Trump and Sanders supporters would see proof that our institutions are rigged against their political villain, increasing "partisan motivated reasoning" and making it easier for Russian agents of influence to blame the USIC along with Comey. It looks like Sanders has already started attacking the FBI:


http://www.businessinsider.com/bernie-sanders-wife-investigation-burlington-college-vermont-2017-6
	'Pretty pathetic': Bernie Sanders throws darts at investigators looking into his wife

	Bernie Sanders had terse words for federal investigators looking into his wife as part of a fraud inquiry related to her tenure as president of a small Vermont liberal-arts college.

	The FBI is investigating allegations that Jane Sanders made fraudulent claims and promises while seeking $10 million in financing for a real-estate deal on behalf of Burlington College, a now-defunct school of which she was president.

	Sanders called the FBI's investigation of his wife "pretty pathetic."

	"My wife is about the most honest person I know," Sanders told CNN's Erin Burnett on Tuesday. "All that I will tell you now is it's a sad state of affairs in America when not only we have politicians being destroyed ... but when you go after people's wives. That's pretty pathetic."


Just as Hersh and others were able to direct public anger about Watergate toward the USIC, Russian propagandists today would see opportunities to pin "Comey-gate" on the FBI, CIA, or anyone they could claim were involved in the same conspiracy. It would be easy for a Russian propagandist posing as a CIA mouthpiece (in say, the Washington Post) to have a "slip-up" or a "tell-all," for example.

Hersh's 1974 NY Times article was enough to kick-off multiple politically-charged investigations into U.S. intelligence agencies, and it looks the scandal Comey's set the kindling for would be enough to do the same. If you've been paying attention, you might have noticed that Senator Grassley has gotten a head-start on this (maybe the "Grassley Committee" would be 2017's version of the Church Committee or Pike Committee). This isn't to say U.S. intelligence agencies shouldn't be investigated--the public should know the truth about leakers and "fake scandals"--but politics has a way of sort-circuiting people's brains. The Pike Committee was said to have been staffed with "young, naïve" "flower children" near the height of public distrust in the CIA and the government over Watergate and Vietnam, and the result was predictable. And it wouldn't hurt to investigate with an eye for Russian agent-provocateurs (what was up with E. Howard Hunt, anyway? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E._Howard_Hunt#Mitrokhin_Archive).


But it does look like the Russians have some politically-charged investigations in mind. For example, right now it looks like Congress is holding the USIC hostage until they finish an investigation into leaks (http://insider.foxnews.com/2017/05/24/gowdy-surveillance-programs-wont-be-reauthorized-until-unmasking-questions-answered), which could be another way to uncover ostensible USIC wrongdoing if the obstruction of justice probe doesn't do so first. Last it was checked, anger about leaks was mostly divided across Republican and Democrat lines:


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-poll-idUSKBN1612PD
	Overall, 43 percent of Americans said they were most concerned about reports of the contacts with Russia. Another 39 percent said they were concerned about the leaks and 19 percent said they didn't know.

	However, people who identified with the Republican Party appeared to be much more troubled by the leaks. Some 57 percent said the leaks were the bigger concern, while 23 percent said it was the Russian contacts, and another 20 percent didn't know.


Revealing the leaks as a blackmail scheme while trying to draw pity for Trump and anger at the USIC could tip the scales against leaks, once again giving Congress cover to "lobotomize" our intelligence agencies.

The Russians might have a few other tricks up their sleeve. As mentioned earlier, there's ostensibly little reason for them to have the GRU loudly steal Clinton's emails when they have plenty of deep cover spies on American soil. But if it turns out that say, a staunchly anti-CIA progressive activists and/or award-winning left-leaning journalist suddenly reveals that they were the ones who supplied Clinton's emails to Wikileaks all along, it would cast doubt on the public narrative of Russia's election meddling, which, regrettably, hasn't moved much past "Russia hacked Clinton's emails." Such a revelation would further sow distrust in the USIC and their conclusions.

There may be more surprises, although guessing increasingly relies on speculation. Some might lie in what exactly Flynn discussed with Kislyak around the time of U.S. retaliation for Russian election meddling. It's worth pointing out that Flynn is said to have discussed the assassination of the Russian diplomat and the downing of the Russian military jet, incidents which, with help from Micheal Morell, Russian propagandists have blamed on the CIA. But Flynn is known to be a conspiracy theorist, and specifically hates the CIA. If Flynn made it sound like these incidents were U.S. retaliation, the present public interest in what exactly Flynn and Kislyak said to each other could translate into worldwide speculation that the CIA murdered a Russian diplomat and a famous Russian military band. Russian propagandists could exploit perceptions that the "deep state" forced Flynn out of office to bolster any prior allegations against the USIC by Flynn.

Another possibility is that Flynn discussed a wider deal than just promising to lift election-related U.S. sanctions, an idea which some reporting on the calls at least alludes to. Trump had long been mulling a deal about Ukraine (see https://pastebin.com/TEDYXvDR), and if Flynn's "deal" with Kislyak was part of a Ukraine peace plan, for example, then Russian propagandists could milk this to bolster their arguments that the "deep state" is secretly maneuvering to prolong chaos and war (for the "military-industrial complex," or something like that). Such a "landmine" could frustrate pro-American members of Congress and U.S. investigators looking to make a case for Trump's impeachment that relies on the calls as evidence.

Whatever Russian intelligence can pull off, one should expect them to at least try to find some way to draw public ire against the USIC, especially in ways that make it harder for them to keep the public informed of Russia's activities. So far, it looks like there is a pretty strong case to impeach Trump over his firing of Sally Yates--if causing global chaos to fire your acting attorney general just in case you might come under investigation for misdeeds the Russians are probably successfully using to blackmail you isn't a high crime or misdemeanor, I don't know what is. But so far the media and Congress have zeroed-in on Trump's firing of Comey and Comey's opinions on Trump. If Trump's impeachment ends up circling the toilet bowl around Comey and his political Rorschach-test of a testimony, the impeachment will end being Trump, representing the "anti-establishment" versus Comey, ostensibly representing the "deep state."

In other words, it would end up being a highly publicized duel between two lying scumbags (for lack of a description)--essentially a repeat of the  overbearingly polarizing fiasco the Russians set up for us in the 2016 election. Then, Trump represented the GOP and Clinton represented the Democrat party; their fate might be a taste of what would happen to the USIC under Comey. Our intelligence agencies would be set up to to take a beating whoever wins. Or, as Russian propaganda puts it, the "deep state" would lose.

On that note, we probably do have a deep state:


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venona_project
	The Venona project was a counterintelligence program initiated by the United States Army's Signal Intelligence Service (later the National Security Agency) that ran for nearly four decades, spanning 1943 to 1980. The purpose of the Venona project was the decryption of messages transmitted by the intelligence agencies of the Soviet Union, e.g. the NKVD, the KGB (First Chief Directorate) and the GRU (military intelligence).

	...During the initial years of the Cold War, the Venona project was a source of information on Soviet intelligence-gathering directed at the Western military powers. Although unknown to the public, and even to Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman, these programs were of importance concerning crucial events of the early Cold War. 

	...For much of its history, knowledge of Venona was restricted even from the highest levels of government. Senior army officers, in consultation with the FBI and CIA, made the decision to restrict knowledge of Venona within the government (even the CIA was not made an active partner until 1952). Army Chief of Staff Omar Bradley, concerned about the White House's history of leaking sensitive information, decided to deny President Truman direct knowledge of the project. 


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/vol2/html/ChurchV2_0032b.htm
	The Chairman. But the CIA was the agency principally involved in the mail openings.

	Mr. Angleton. That is correct for all foreign mail, not for domestic.

	The Chairman. Yes; and we will explore the whole breadth of that program in due course. Did not the CIA have an affirmative duty to inform the President about such a program?

	Mr. Angleton. I believe so, without any question.

	The Chairman. But it apparently was not done. You did not inform the President. Director Helms did not inform the President, so---


http://www.aarclibrary.org/publib/church/reports/vol2/html/ChurchV2_0035b.htm
	Senator Baker. How, then, was counterintelligence, your area of concern and expertise, important to that area to be involved with mail openings?

	Mr. Angleton. Well, since the mail openings were to the Communist countries, it meant that there was a contact, regular contact, with Americans and third country nationals who were here. For example, there are many third country nationals that were studying who, in turn, had relatives who were studying in Soviet institutions.

	Senator Baker. I can follow that. But what prompted the question was, why on earth would you have, for instance, Frank Church or Richard Nixon on that list?

	Mr. Angleton. I would say it was very much an error.
	
	Senator Baker. It was an error to have them on the list?

	Mr. Angleton. That is precisely correct.


https://pastebin.com/r5PHGSnz
	a heads up: it only gets weirder from here on out.


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP91-00901R000600210056-1.pdf
	CIA, allies change policy, begin openly exposing Soviet intelligence

	Washington (KNT)--The Central Intelligence Agency and allied intelligence agencies have declared open season on their KGB counterparts, exposing Soviet intelligence operations throughout the world.

	In the weeks following the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, there have been major exposures of Soviet spy networks in New Zealand, Spain, Canada and Japan. Agents have been exposed and, in some cases, expelled.

	Intelligence veterans note that this flurry of "rollbacks" is in marked contrast to the days of detente when the tight little world of spy versus spy simmered clandestinely.

	...Perhaps most damaging to the KGB was a hearing on Capitol Hill early this month. For the first time in the CIA's history, testimony by the agency's chief spy-master, the director of covert operations, was handed to reporters. Until then, John McMahon's identity as deputy director for operations was itself a secret.

	Mr. McMahon's testimony disclosed a mass of sensitive data. It included copies of what Mr. McMahon called KGB forgeries of American diplomatic documents, which were part of an apparent scheme to undermine relations between the U.S. and Egyptian President Anwar el Sadat.

	...In his testimony, Mr. McMahon said, "The KGB exercises day-to-day operation responsibility for forgery efforts, but its annual and five-to-seven-year work plans are approved by the highest levels of the Soviet political authority."

	In all, Mr. McMahon gave the subcommittee 16 documents he called KGB forgeries. They show the Soviet spy agency writing nonexistent press conferences for President Carter in which he made insulting remarks about Greece, an Army field manual urging subversion of host countries and many falsified diplomatic cables.

	Mr. McMahon also disclosed a CIA estimate of how much the KGB spends a year--"our rough estimate of $3 billion a year is probably a conservative figure."

	The CIA estimated that the KGB spent $200 million last year for support to guerilla groups, $100 million on clandestine radio stations and another #200 million for "special campaigns"--including an effort to stop American plans to build the neutron bomb and place nuclear missiles in Europe.

	A spokesman for the House subcommittee said Mr. McMahon's testimony delivered in secret session February 6, was released last week to "dramatize" recent increases in Soviet forgery schemes. [author's aside: don't you wish we had a House Intelligence Committee like that today?] Mr. McMahon said the KGB had been using forgeries since the 1950s.


Trump probably isn't the first stooge the Russians have installed. If ends up that America's elected and appointed officials tend to be agents of foreign intelligence, America's counterintelligence will tend to be among the unelected officials. There's no way for a government to counter this kind of attack without a deep state.

As for what the deep state is up to, I think I've made my case that much of the "deep state leakers" might not be so loyal to the United States, and haven't been for a long time. That said, sometimes information is so important that the public must be informed. The letter of the law is that leaking classified is always illegal, but the spirit of the law is that tyranny will not be tolerated in the United States, and the American Government is for the American people. If an official is abusing his power or acting for anybody else besides the American people, the public has the right to know.

U.S. law enforcement and intelligence agencies have incredible power in America, and to keep the public trust they must use that power justly and judiciously--clearly, blackmailing a sitting President to keep a corrupt FBI director in power can be ruled out. U.S. intelligence agencies should only blackmail officials who are agents of a foreign power, and only for them to act in ways that are justifiably in the public good. Likewise, leaking confidential information about a U.S. President's private conversations and exaggerating it to attack him (i.e. the Miller and Jaffe WaPo story) can be ruled out. Information like this should be reported accurately, and leaked only if its necessary for the checks and balances of our American system to work.

And this gets to something important--Americans need to realize that we are in trouble, but a lot of our elected officials--even most of them--might not be on our side in this crisis (with Watergate, they certainly weren't last time):


http://fortune.com/2017/03/28/donald-trump-taxes-tax-returns/
	House GOP Blocks Democrats’ Attempts to Obtain Trump’s Tax Returns

	House Republicans on Tuesday blocked more attempts by Democrats to obtain President Donald Trump's tax returns from the IRS.

	House Democrats tried for a third and a fourth time to use procedural votes to pry loose Trump's returns. Republicans blocked both efforts, one on the House floor and the other in the House Ways and Means Committee.


http://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2017/06/04/531439721/march-for-truth-protesters-demand-independent-russia-investigation
	March For Truth Protesters Demand Independent Russia Investigation 

	Thousands of protesters gathered around the country in a series of "March for Truth" rallies on Saturday. Demonstrators were calling for a congressional independent commission to investigate connections between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.

	In full view of the White House, protesters in Washington, D.C., demanded answers in the ongoing Russia probe. Chants of "Investigate Trump!" and "Resist, resist!" rang across the National Mall.

	Some protesters even lined up together to spell out "Investigate Trump."

	...They were also demanding that the president release his tax returns.

	Marchers took to the streets in more than 100 cities including New York, Los Angeles and Seattle. 

Congress already knows about the StB intelligence report regarding Trump being "pressured" to run for President and being "tax-exempt for the next 30 years." But instead of investigating, they blocked Congress from obtaining Trump's tax returns. When thousands of people across the country protested for an independent commission and for Trump to release his tax returns, they were ignored. They even spelled "investigate Trump" in big letters on the National Mall. There has been no independent commission.

Congress knows there are serious conflicts of interest with the Russia investigation for the Ranking Member and Chairman of the Senate Intelligence committee (in fact, you can make a pretty good case both are siding with the Russians. The CIA briefed Warner, a Democrat that Trump's team was colluding with the Russians before he voted for Putin Friendship Award-winner Rex Tillerson, for example https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/06/us/trump-russia-cia-john-brennan.html). Every single call for an independent congressional investigation before then and since has been ignored.

Congress has known there's a good case to impeach Trump for awhile now. But to impeach him, they have to investigate first. But no matter how many people write or protest, they have decided they aren't interested in conducting a thorough and impartial investigation. They know Trump is diplomatically and economically isolating our country, and that this is what the Russians intend to do--to use this twisted man to cause our country's decline. But even in a dire situation like this, they've shown over and over that they intend to keep him put.

They know Russian psychological warfare is targeting our children, and they know what these people do to human beings they think they can manipulate and control. They know they can blunt their propaganda by informing the public. They know the scope of their influence operations and what they do to countries once their influence is great enough. Instead, they want to tell you more about Russian "hacking."

Now, here's a thought experiment: If you decide to invade a country, what do you do once you take it over? What's the end state? In some ways, you're left where you started: you need to have a government and officials to make your government work. Ultimately, before your invasion, the country is run by one set of officials, and after the invasion, it's run by another set of officials--your officials. But if you wanted to skip a few steps, you could get to that end state faster: instead of sending over an army and forcing your officials into power, you could send over and recruit some spies and journalists and get your officials elected.

The founders of our country knew what it was like to live under a tyrant. When they wrote the Constitution, they didn't just write down a list of laws and rights. They designed a system to protect their countrymen and their progeny from tyranny and ensure that our Government is not for any royalty, elites, or tyrants, but for the people. Even the Second Amendment, which is widely mistaken to be meant for personal self-defense, was actually meant to be the people's last-line of defense against a corrupt or tyrannical government (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution#Ratification_debates).

But now our country is in a serious crisis, maybe the greatest so far. Democracy and freedom of the press were designed to keep our elected officials or elected-hopefuls accountable--so long as the press keeps the public informed, the public will know when their officials and candidates for office screw up. But if a large-enough group of journalists conspire to help one candidate over another, how would the public even know? The press is how the American people learn about the world. But if we are unwittingly blocked from learning enough about our officials to choose them and hold them accountable, is that really democracy? Can democracy function in a country with a press that conspires against them?

And as it turns out, when Congress filibustered the repeal to the Citizens United decision, they legalized this kind of election influence conspiracy. It's possible that the entirety of Russia's influence operations against our election has been legal because of this decision. The only legal way we can rid ourselves of the people who made this decision is through elections.

But elections require funding to run, and donors have particular tastes (apparently Joe Biden didn't make the cut). If a foreign power tasks spies with influencing wealthy donors to pick one candidate and block out another, before the American public even gets to choose, does that sound like democracy?

If a foreign power deliberately rigs our election to install a self-centered mob-boss-wannabe moron, then blackmails this man into acting against his own country, does that sound like democracy? Government for the people?

As for whether or not Comey is a Russian spy, it's hard to believe someone could live their whole life in one country and have loyalty to another. But it's questionable whether or not they ever were Russian in the first place:


http://www.ecfr.eu/publications/summary/crimintern_how_the_kremlin_uses_russias_criminal_networks_in_europe
	It was perhaps inevitable that an especially strong connection between the security agencies and organised crime would arise in Russia. This is nothing new. For a start, from the tsarist Okhrana to the various Soviet agencies, the political police looked to the underworld for sources and recruits. The prevailing culture of Russian officialdom – in which political authority is there to be monetised – combined with the powers and impunity of the security apparatus, led to endemic corruption. On the whole, officers from the security and intelligence services did not join gangs or even necessarily form them, even though there were a few so-called ‘werewolves in epaulettes’. Rather, they usually conspired with organised crime networks or provided services for money − primarily protection or information.


https://vault.fbi.gov/ghost-stories-russian-foreign-intelligence-service-illegals/documents/referrals-part-01-of-01/view
	pg 167

	LAZARO: I'm . . . I'm going to give them what they want. But, I'm going to continue what I'm telling them . . . If they don't like what I tell them, too bad . . . but, (unintelligible) work because they like it . . . they're (unintelligible). They say their hands are tied. On the inside, they don't even care about the country. . .

	PELAEZ: So . . . why do they have you? If they don't care about the country . . . what do we have Intelligence Services for?


https://books.google.com/books?id=X2eTBtFWQdUC&pg=PA30
	One wonders just how extensive the Okhrana operation was abroad. A police report from 1901 refers to a "great number of agents," and at the time of the Harting disclosures an ex-agent provided the press with a list of fifteen Paris operatives. These included former French, German, and Scotland Yard policemen. After the revolution, former Okhrana officials reduced to writing their memoirs argued that only a handful of agents had been stationed abroad, occasionally supplemented by flying squads out of Moscow and St. Petersburg. And yet the files of the Paris Okhrana office, which was the hub of Russian police operations in Europe, fill 216 boxes. 


http://www.sparknotes.com/history/european/russianrev/section3.rhtml
	During the February Revolution, Vladimir Lenin had been living in exile in Switzerland. Though historians disagree about specifics, they concur that the government of Germany deliberately facilitated Lenin’s return to his homeland in the spring of 1917. Without question, the German leadership did so with the intent of destabilizing Russia. The Germans provided Lenin with a guarded train that took him as far as the Baltic coast, from which he traveled by boat to Sweden, then on to Russia by train. There is also evidence that Germany funded the Bolshevik Party, though historians disagree over how much money they actually contributed.


http://spartacus-educational.com/Mikhail_Borodin.htm
	Borodin moved to London in 1906. However, the following year he settled in the United States. For a time he worked with Jane Addams at the Hull House Settlement. He was a member of the Socialist Party of America and in September 1919, he joined forces with Jay Lovestone, Earl Browder, John Reed, James Cannon, Bertram Wolfe, William Bross Lloyd, Benjamin Gitlow, Charles Ruthenberg, William Dunne, Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, Louis Fraina, Ella Reeve Bloor, Rose Pastor Stokes, Claude McKay, Max Shachtman, Martin Abern, Michael Gold and Robert Minor, to form the American Communist Party. Within a few weeks it had 60,000 members. 


http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/clinton-ally-says-smoke-no-fire-no-russia-trump-collusion-n734176
	Clinton Ally Says Smoke, But No Fire: No Russia-Trump Collusion

	 Morell said he had learned that the former officer, Christopher Steele, paid his key Russian sources, and interviewed them through intermediaries.

	"On the question of the Trump campaign conspiring with the Russians here, there is smoke, but there is no fire, at all," Morell said at an event sponsored by the Cipher Brief, an intelligence web site.

	"There’s no little campfire, there’s no little candle, there’s no spark. And there’s a lot of people looking for it."

	Morell pointed out that former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said on Meet the Press on March 5 that he had seen no evidence of a conspiracy when he left office January 20.

	"That’s a pretty strong statement by General Clapper," Morell said.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Morell
	Michael Joseph Morell (born September 4, 1958) is an American intelligence analyst. He served as the deputy director of the Central Intelligence Agency as well as its acting director twice, first in 2011 and then from 2012 to 2013. Since November 2013, he has been a Senior Counselor to Beacon Global Strategies LLC. He is a critic of the Senate Intelligence Committee's 2014 report on the CIA's use of enhanced interrogation techniques, which many consider to be torture, and is also a proponent of the CIA's targeted killings by drones.


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/07/donald-trump-general-michael-flynn-vp-225253
	Trump's favorite general 

	The New York Post earlier this week reported that Flynn is being actively vetted, which the retired general did not deny. “One of the things I expect Mr. Trump would look for in a vice president is discretion,” Flynn told the paper. 

	...In December, he told a congressional committee that there are “some who abuse the system so badly that it makes corrupt governments in Third World nations blush.” He went so far as recommending that “half or more” of the civilian workforce in the Pentagon be let go, amounting to some 400,000 government jobs


http://www.dia.mil/About/Leadership/Article-View/Article/567051/ltg-michael-t-flynn-usa/
	Michael T. Flynn graduated from the University of Rhode Island in 1981 and was commissioned a second lieutenant in Military Intelligence. His first assignment was as a paratrooper of the 82nd Airborne Division at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Since then, he has served in a variety of command and staff positions to include, Commander, 313th Military Intelligence Battalion and G2, 82nd Airborne Division; G2, 18th Airborne Corps, CJ2, CJTF-180 Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) in Afghanistan; Commander, 111th Military Intelligence Brigade at the Army’s Intelligence Center at Fort Huachuca, Arizona; Director of Intelligence, Joint Special Operations Command with duty in OEF and Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF); Director of Intelligence, United States Central Command with duty in OEF and OIF; Director of Intelligence, the Joint Staff; Director of Intelligence, International Security Assistance Force-Afghanistan and US Forces-Afghanistan and Special Assistant to the Deputy Chief of Staff, G2. He most recently served as the Assistant Director of National Intelligence for Partner Engagement before becoming the 18th Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency on 24 July 2012.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/21/opinions/meaning-leaks-trump-administration-hall/index.html
	Is a 'deep state subverting the presidency?

	By Steven L. Hall

	February 22, 2017

	Let's start with what we can all agree on: Leaking is serious and illegal, and leaking classified information can endanger national security. All leaks must therefore be thoroughly investigated. Even former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper acknowledged as much in his Feb. 16 statement.

	But people diverge over the role the intelligence community has played in recent leaks. Take, for example, the ouster of Michael Flynn, President Donald Trump's short-lived national security advisor. Some have argued recent leaks of classified information, assumedly emanating from inside the intelligence community, resulted in his swift removal from office. 

	...The idea of a "deep state," a murky coalition of mostly national security and intelligence officials who are attempting to subvert the President, has begun circulating. 

	...So what are we really being asked to believe, and is it the most likely explanation for recent events, including the resignation of Flynn? On the one hand, yes, it's theoretically possible that a group of rogue civil servants, probably concentrated in the intelligence community, have conspired to leak sensitive information to oust Flynn -- a man not terribly popular when he was a leader at the Defense Intelligence Agency.

	Perhaps these rogues will continue to undermine Trump further whenever they disagree with him, say, for example, on Russia policy -- or, more importantly, on the question of whether the Trump campaign had contact with the Russian government prior to the election. The administration could be thwarted at every turn from those in Deep Government, and something would have to be done.

	Or, more likely, Flynn was fatally flawed from the outset. His integrity problems, coupled with an abrasive management style and an overly cozy relationship with Moscow, simply made him a bad choice for the job.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/posteverything/wp/2017/05/17/why-spies-worry-about-what-other-countries-will-do-with-their-intelligence/?hpid=hp_no-name_opinion-card-f%3Ahomepage%2Fstory
	I was in the CIA. We wouldn’t trust a country whose leader did what Trump did.

	By Steven L. Hall May 17

	As a former CIA officer, I fear that sharing information without coordinating with our allies will almost certainly hurt the country’s security in the long run. I know how U.S. intelligence officials evaluate whether we can trust our partners in other countries. If another head of state handled the sensitive information we had provided so casually, it would damage our relationship badly. It would cause us to reevaluate how and what we passed, and almost certainly result in our sharing less.

	...There are really no answers to these or similar questions that would satisfy whichever ally passed us the information. Certainly, there are no answers that would satisfy the United States if the situation were reversed. 

	...It does not matter whether you blame Trump, or an aggressive press corps seeking out every flaw in the White House, or “deep state” operatives in the intelligence world who are leaking to damage the administration, as conspiracy theorists have it. No matter why this story is coming out, all of this is being watched by our foreign intelligence partners and their governments, all over the world

	...Foreign governments are asking themselves questions that come down to this: Can we trust the United States with sensitive intelligence? Right now, they must be deeply skeptical. And that means the United States will have less intelligence from our foreign allies, which in turn means the United States is less secure.

	So which is it? A vast, dark government conspiracy exerting unconstitutional control over the President and his policies using leaks? Or a White House in disarray and a President who desperately fears an investigation into his campaign's contact with Russia -- something that could undermine that which is most dear to him, his presidency?

	I know where I'd put my money.


https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/05/16/mcmaster_national_security_put_at_risk_by_leaks_like_washington_post_story.html
	McMaster: National Security "Put At Risk" By Leaks Like Washington Post Story

	May 16, 2017 

	QUESTION: Did the president reveal a city? And that -- I mean, the spin is that the president revealed the name of the city, and that gave away information that undermined an ally.

	MCMASTER: OK, I -- I will answer that.

	OK, so, all of you are very familiar with the threat from ISIS. All of you are very familiar with the territory it controls. If you were to say, "Hey, from where do you think a threat might come from territory that ISIS controls?," you would probably be able to name a few cities, I would think.


https://www.stratfor.com/content/steven-l-hall
	Steven L. Hall

	Steven L. Hall retired from the Central Intelligence Agency in 2015 after 30 years of running and managing intelligence operations in Eurasia and Latin America. Mr. Hall finished his career as a member of the Senior Intelligence Service, the small cadre of officers who are the senior-most leaders of the CIA's Clandestine Service.

	Most of Mr. Hall's career was spent abroad, overseeing intelligence operations in the countries of the former Soviet Union and the former Warsaw Pact.


https://twitter.com/StevenLHall1/status/854349836010663937
	Steven L. Hall Retweeted Kyle Griffin

	People are worried. That's good.


https://books.google.com/books?id=oM8u2198DcsC&pg=PT144
	On the other hand, water-cooler gossip at the agency held that the new director himself might be a Soviet agent planted into the intelligence community's heart at its very inception. To some people in the agency, Colby's performances before Congress were at best designed to cripple the intelligence community. A worst, as hallway murmurings attested, Colby's testimony was tantamount to treason.


https://books.google.com/books?id=Tp9WODvGNScC&pg=PT172
	Decade of Nightmares: The End of the Sixties and the Making of Eighties America

	By Philip Jenkins

	Growing anti-Soviet felling had its impact within the administration and the intelligence community, which was already staggering in the face of post-Watergate scandals. From 1973 through 1976, the CIA was headed by William Colby, who purged anti-Soviet hard-liners.


http://www.nytimes.com/1978/06/25/archives/the-angleton-story-from-forced-retirement-james-jesus-angleton.html
	On the other hand, there is the matter of Nikita Khrushchev's secret speech before the Soviet party congress of 1956.

	Khrushchev's stunning denunciation of Stalin was obtained and made public by the C.I.A., and the impact on the world is history. And the credit goes largely to Angleton's section. The speech was apparently picked up by one of his counterintelligence contacts, somewhere in Eastern Europe, in exchange for a large cash payment.

	...For Angleton, obtaining the document was not enough. He has repeatedly told friends, and some reporters, that his office began planning a major disinformation operation even while the Eisenhower Administration was still debating whether to make the speech available to the press.

	“What Jim did,” one of his friends told me, “was to doctor the speech with some pejorative stuff and leak it to the neutrals, the Indians among them. They all swallowed it. There were nasty things about the heads of 15 or 20 governments that were written by Jim [i.e., the counterintelligence staff] and attributed to Khrushchev.” The resulting furor, his friend said, was “a tremendous coup for Jim. It completely disrupted Communist efforts all over the world.”

	The fact, huwever, is that the Angleton plan was killed by higher officials before it could be put into operation. When one newspaper editor reproached Angleton recently for continuing to tell the story to reporters, Angleton replied, “Why not tell it? It muddies the water, doesn't it?”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/obituaries/clare-edward-petty-cold-warrior-and-spycatching-cia-officer-dies-at-90/2011/04/13/AFGpYziD_story.html
	Angleton soon became the target of his own inquisition. As time passed and no high-level mole was snared, Mr. Petty became convinced that Golitsyn was a Soviet-controlled agent providing disruptive misinformation to the CIA. The mole, Mr. Petty reasoned, had to be Golitsyn’s handler: Angleton himself.

	Among Mr. Petty’s concerns was Angleton’s once-close relationship with Kim Philby, who rose to the highest levels of the British intelligence service before he was unmasked as a Soviet mole in the early 1960s.

	According to his unpublished memoir, Mr. Petty spent more than two years working secretly to investigate his supervisor. He gathered intricate details about Angleton’s movements and close associates through the years, looking for — and finding, he thought — evidence that Angleton could have collaborated with the Soviets.

	Mr. Petty admitted that it was a messy conclusion based largely on the circumstantial suggestion of guilt. “It was not a clear-cut case,” he told David Martin for “Wilderness of Mirrors,” Martin’s 1980 book about the Cold War-era CIA.

	Whatever his misgivings, Mr. Petty reported concerns about Angleton to agency superiors in 1974. He delivered several drawers full of notes and documents supporting his view, then spent at least 26 hours over the course of a week explaining his work to a senior officer in tape-recorded interviews.

	The price of that move was Mr. Petty’s job — he retired almost immediately — and his reputation. His accusation against Angleton was dismissed in a CIA study, and Mr. Petty remains one of the more controversial figures in the agency’s history.


https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/vol-59-no-1/Kim-Philby-Books.html
	A Spy Among Friends: Kim Philby and the Great Betrayal

	...Angleton, who interacted frequently with Philby

	...Macintyre contends little is known about what exactly Angleton told Philby during their martini-filled lunches because Angleton destroyed memos he supposedly dictated right after the sessions. It is hard to believe Angleton would give away the store to Philby because he was drunk and then return sober enough to dictate a comprehensive memo detailing his possible violation of the need-to-know principle—in itself an act of astounding stupidity.

	...The real damage began in 1944, when the British and Americans set their counterintelligence sights against the Soviet Union. Philby gave up one Soviet defector just before the defector could name Philby as a spy. The Soviet consular official in Istanbul had promised to turn over the names of hundreds of Soviet agents in Turkey and Britain. Philby shared with the Soviets the names of leading Catholics in Germany who could play a role in government after the war. The Kremlin had many of them killed or imprisoned. This was a particularly cruel act.

	Philby appears to have acted slavishly without any reflection, given the Soviets almost certainly would have gained hegemony over parts of Germany without this kill list. 


http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/26/politics/james-comey-fbi-investigation-fake-russian-intelligence/index.html
	Multiple US officials tell CNN that to this day Russia is trying to spread false information in the US -- through elected officials and American intelligence and law enforcement operatives -- in order to cloud and confuse ongoing investigations.


https://judiciary.house.gov/hearing/oversight-federal-bureau-investigation/
	Mr. COMEY. ...And, obviously, as you know, we are doing an awful lot of work through our counterintelligence investigators to understand just what mischief is Russia up to 
