Which raises the question: why on earth is Comey promoting it? 


http://www.npr.org/2017/06/07/531643428/comey-opening-statement-for-senate-intelligence-hearing-annotated
	At the conclusion of that briefing, I remained alone with the President-Elect to brief him on some personally sensitive aspects of the information assembled during the assessment.

	The IC leadership thought it important, for a variety of reasons, to alert the incoming President to the existence of this material, even though it was salacious and unverified. Among those reasons were: (1) we knew the media was about to publicly report the material and we believed the IC should not keep knowledge of the material and its imminent release from the President-Elect; and (2) to the extent there was some effort to compromise an incoming President, we could blunt any such effort with a defensive briefing.

	...During the dinner, the President returned to the salacious material I had briefed him about on January 6, and, as he had done previously, expressed his disgust for the allegations and strongly denied them. He said he was considering ordering me to investigate the alleged incident to prove it didn’t happen. I replied that he should give that careful thought because it might create a narrative that we were investigating him personally, which we weren’t, and because it was very difficult to prove a negative. He said he would think about it and asked me to think about it.

	...He said he had nothing to do with Russia, had not been involved with hookers in Russia, and had always assumed he was being recorded when in Russia. He asked what we could do to “lift the cloud.” I responded that we were investigating the matter as quickly as we could, and that there would be great benefit, if we didn’t find anything, to our having done the work well. He agreed, but then re-emphasized the problems this was causing him.


http://time.com/4810345/james-comey-testimony-real-time-transcript/
	Chairman Richard Burr - North Carolina:
	In the public domain, is this question of the steel dossier a document that has been around now for over a year, I'm not sure when the FBI first took possession of it, but the media had it before you had it and we had it. At the time of your departure from the FBI, was the FBI able to confirm any criminal allegations contained In the steel document?

	James Comey:
	Mr. Chairman, I don't think that's a question I can answer in an open setting. It goes into the details of the investigation.

	...Chairman Richard Burr - North Carolina:
	At what point would that recruitment become a counterintelligence threat to our country?

	James Comey:
	Difficult to answer in the abstract. But when a foreign power is using -- especially coercion or some sort of pressure to try to co-opt an American, especially a government official to act on its behalf that's a serious concern to the FBI and at the heart of the FBI's counterintelligence mission.

	Chairman Richard Burr - North Carolina:
	If you've got a 36-page document of specific claims that are out there, the FBI would have to -- for counterintelligence reasons -- try to verify anything that might be claimed in there, one, and probably first and foremost, is the counterintelligence concerns that we have about blackmail? would that be an accurate statement?

	James Comey:
	Yes if the FBI receives a credible allegation there is some attempt to coerce an American on behalf of a foreign power that's the basis on which a case is open.

	Chairman Richard Burr - North Carolina:
	When you read the dossier, what was your reaction given that it was 100% directed at the President-Elect?

	James Comey:
	Not a question I can answer in an open setting, Mr. Chairman.

	...Susan Collins - Maine:
	And then on -- and that's why you volunteered the information. Then on the January 27th dinner, you told the President that he should be careful about asking you to investigate because, quote, you might create a narrative that we are investigating him personally, which we weren't. Were you limiting that statement to counterintelligence investigations or more broadly such as a criminal investigation?

	James Comey:
	The context was similar, I didn't modify the word investigation. Again, he was reacting strongly against that unverified material saying I'm tempting you to order to investigate it and I said you want to be careful about that because it might create a narrative that we're investigating you personally.

	...James Comey: ...I was speaking to him and briefing him about some salacious and unverified material. It was in a context of that that he had a strong and defensive reaction about that not being true, and my reading of it was, It was important for me to assure him we were not personally investigating him, and so the context then was actually narrower, focused on what I just talked to him about but very important because it was first true and second I was very, very much about being in kind of a -- kind of a J. Edgar Hoover type situation. I didn't want him thinking I was briefing him on this, to sort of hang it over him in some way, I was briefing him on it because we had been told by the media it was about to launch, we don't want to be keeping that from him, and if there was -- he needed to know this was being said. But I was very keen not to leave him with an impression that the bureau was trying to do something to him, and so that's the context in which I said, sir, we're not personally investigating you.


Comey made the dossier a centerpiece of his testimony with statements that are easy to interpret as hints of its credibility, which the media jumped on once again:


http://www.thedailybeast.com/comey-implies-trump-dossier-contained-credible-allegations
	Comey Implies Trump Dossier Contained ‘Credible Allegations’

	Former FBI Director James Comey implied Thursday that the now-infamous 36-page dossier contained “credible allegations.” Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) asked, during Comey’s testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee: “So if you got a 36-page document of specific claims that are out there...


https://thinkprogress.org/comey-testimony-dossier-b4ba129a5e22
	Comey suggests there’s some truth to allegations in the explosive Trump dossier

	“Mr. Chairman, I don’t think that’s a question I can answer in an open setting because it goes into the details of the investigation,” said Comey, a response that seemed to catch Burr off guard.


https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-06-08/comey-opens-door-to-investigate-trump-dossier
	Comey Opens Door to Investigate Trump Dossier

	If Trump was lying about having nothing to do with Russia -- or if he was lying about the charge that Russian intelligence had gathered compromising material about him because of a dalliance with Russian prostitute -- that would constitute a federal crime.

	To be extremely clear, I’m not saying that I have any reason to believe that Trump lied to Comey. I don’t.

	But the statements alone, coupled with the dossier that contradicts them, provide sufficient reason for Mueller to extend his investigation to consider Trump’s own Russia related conduct -- including the information discussed in the dossier.


http://www.dailykos.com/story/2017/6/8/1669966/-Comey-just-verified-the-veracity-of-the-hooker-dossier
	Comey just verified the veracity of the 'hooker dossier'


http://dailycaller.com/2017/06/08/revealed-how-the-fbi-inadvertently-turned-an-unverified-trump-dossier-into-hard-news/
	Revealed: How The FBI Inadvertently Turned An Unverified Trump Dossier Into Hard News

	Reporting on their existence makes little sense without any way to confirm the allegations made in the dossier.The establishment media, hostile to the president-elect, was champing at the bit to release the dossier, and the IC briefing was all the verification needed.


http://insider.foxnews.com/2017/06/09/ann-coulter-tucker-carlson-james-comey-hearing-not-clearing-trump
	"It's the most insane thing I've ever heard," Coulter said.

	She added that the only documented collusion between Russia and Americans during the election was related to the defamatory Trump dossier.

	"Whatever happened to that?" Coulter said. "That was a Russian-produced dossier, used by, first, Never Trumpers, then the Hillary Clinton campaign, then the FBI, and broadcast hysterically by CNN. That was a Russian-produced dossier. That is the only evidence we have of Russia trying to collude."


http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/06/09/comey-testimony-leaves-questions-unanswered-about-anti-trump-dossier.html
	Comey testimony leaves questions unanswered about anti-Trump dossier

	As previously reported by Fox News, Comey considered the unverified dossier prepared by Steele to be so important, he insisted it be included in January's final intelligence community report on Russian meddling in the election.


This isn't the first time Comey has done this:


http://www.cnn.com/2017/04/18/politics/fbi-dossier-carter-page-donald-trump-russia-investigation/index.html
	Washington (CNN)The FBI last year used a dossier of allegations of Russian ties to Donald Trump's campaign as part of the justification to win approval to secretly monitor a Trump associate, according to US officials briefed on the investigation.

	The dossier has also been cited by FBI Director James Comey in some of his briefings to members of Congress in recent weeks, as one of the sources of information the bureau has used to bolster its investigation, according to US officials briefed on the probe.

	...The dossier first came to light when CNN reported that a summary of it had been presented to President Obama and President-elect Trump back in December by top US Intelligence officials.

	Comey's briefings to lawmakers stand in contrast to efforts in recent months by the bureau and US intelligence agencies to try to distance themselves from the dossier.

	...Comey hasn't mentioned the dossier in all his briefings to lawmakers, according to people familiar with the briefings. To some of them, he has emphasized that the FBI gathered evidence as part of its investigation to support seeking FISA court approval and to take other steps as part of the probe that began last July, according to the officials briefed of the probe.


https://apnews.com/152579d488a740b2a8d39fbe2f34506d/biden-intel-officials-told-us-trump-allegations-might-leak
	Jan. 12, 2017

	Vice President Joe Biden said Thursday that top intelligence leaders told him and President Barack Obama they felt obligated to inform them about uncorroborated allegations about President-elect Donald Trump out of concern the information would become public and catch them off-guard.

	In an interview, Biden said neither he nor Obama asked U.S. intelligence agencies to try to corroborate the unverified claims that Russia had obtained compromising sexual and financial allegations about Trump.

	“I think it’s something that obviously the agency thinks they have to track down,” Biden said. He added later, “It surprised me in that it made it to the point where the agency, the FBI thought they had to pursue it.”

	...“As a matter of fact, the president was like, ’What does this have anything to do with anything?’” Biden said. He said intelligence leaders responded by saying “Well, we feel obliged to tell you, Mr. President, because you may hear about it. We’re going to tell him,” referring to Trump.

	Biden said intelligence leaders told him and Obama that they couldn’t say whether or not the allegations were true or untrue. He said there was “hardly any discussion” about the allegations in the briefing.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/10/politics/donald-trump-intelligence-report-russia/index.html
	January 11, 2017

	(CNN)Classified documents presented last week to President Obama and President-elect Trump included allegations that Russian operatives claim to have compromising personal and financial information about Mr. Trump, multiple US officials with direct knowledge of the briefings tell CNN.

	The allegations were presented in a two-page synopsis that was appended to a report on Russian interference in the 2016 election. The allegations came, in part, from memos compiled by a former British intelligence operative, whose past work US intelligence officials consider credible. The FBI is investigating the credibility and accuracy of these allegations, which are based primarily on information from Russian sources, but has not confirmed many essential details in the memos about Mr. Trump.

	The classified briefings last week were presented by four of the senior-most US intelligence chiefs -- Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, FBI Director James Comey, CIA Director John Brennan, and NSA Director Admiral Mike Rogers.


https://www.buzzfeed.com/kenbensinger/these-reports-allege-trump-has-deep-ties-to-russia
	CNN reported Tuesday that a two-page synopsis of the report was given to President Obama and Trump.

	Now BuzzFeed News is publishing the full document so that Americans can make up their own minds about allegations about the president-elect that have circulated at the highest levels of the US government.


http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/fbi-s-comey-told-trump-about-russia-dossier-after-intel-n706416
	A senior U.S. official said that it was FBI Director James Comey himself who pulled Trump aside after the briefing and spoke with him one-on-one about the so-called "dossier," 35 pages of memos prepared by a former British spy for an anti-Trump client prior to last year's election. 


http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/01/donald-trump-russia-report-intelligence-community
	At the same time, the fact that the nation’s top intelligence officials chose to present a summary version of the dossier to both President Obama and President-elect Trump, as CNN reports they did last week, indicates that they may have had a relatively high degree of confidence that at least some of the claims therein were credible


http://www.businessinsider.com/ex-cia-officers-trump-dossier-russia-2017-1
	The CIA and the FBI would not have briefed the president and the president-elect on claims that Russia has compromising information on Donald Trump if they did not take the allegations seriously, said former CIA operatives and analysts who spoke to Business Insider.

	"Most of the information that passes across the CIA's desk throughout the day ends up on the cutting-room floor because it's not deemed to be credible or relevant," said Evan McMullin, a former CIA operations officer who ran as an independent during the 2016 presidential election.


https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/jan/12/intelligence-sources-vouch-credibility-donald-trump-russia-dossier-author
	At his press briefing on Wednesday, the president-elect dared the world’s media to scrutinise the 35 pages of claims, before throwing down a challenge – where’s the proof? Nobody had any. Case closed.

	But in the rush to trample all over the dossier and its contents, one key question remained. Why had America’s intelligence agencies felt it necessary to provide a compendium of the claims to Barack Obama and Trump himself?

	And the answer to that lies in the credibility of its apparent author, the ex-MI6 officer Christopher Steele, the quality of the sources he has, and...


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/decision-to-brief-trump-on-allegations-brought-a-secret-and-unsubstantiated-dossier-into-the-public-domain/2017/01/11/275a3a6c-d830-11e6-b8b2-cb5164beba6b_story.html
	Decision to brief Trump on allegations brought a secret and unsubstantiated dossier into the public domain

	By Greg Miller, Ellen Nakashima and Karen DeYoung January 11

	As the nation’s top spies prepared to brief President Obama and President-elect Donald Trump on Russian interference in the 2016 election, they faced an excruciatingly delicate question: Should they mention the salacious allegations that had been circulating in Washington for months that Moscow had compromising information on the incoming president?

	Ultimately, they concluded they had no choice. A 35-page dossier packed with details of supposed compromising personal information, alleged financial entanglements and political intrigue was already in such wide circulation in Washington that every major news organization seemed to have a copy.

	“You’d be derelict if you didn’t” mention the dossier, a U.S. official said. To ignore the file, produced by a private-sector security firm, would only make the supposed guardians of the nation’s secrets seem uninformed, officials said, adding that many were convinced that it was only a matter of time before someone decided to publish the material.

	Their decision appears to have hastened that outcome, triggering coverage of politically charged allegations that news organizations had tried to run down for months but could find no basis for publishing until they were summarized and included alongside a highly classified report assembled by the nation’s intelligence services.

	...But U.S. intelligence officials appear to have been caught off-guard by the fallout, including a blistering attack by Trump, who accused spy agencies of engaging in Nazi-like tactics to smear him.

	In an effort to contain the damage...

	...But linking a collection of unsubstantiated allegations to a classified report that is supposed to convey the intelligence community’s firmest conclusions about Russian election interference has blurred the distinction between corroborated intelligence and innuendo.

	Former U.S. intelligence officials described the inclusion of the summary — drawn from “opposition research” done by a political research firm — as highly unusual.

	...“How did this former British intelligence officer talk to all these Russian officials and not get arrested for espionage?” the former official asked. Steele’s identity and association with his investigations firm are public, and are almost certainly known to Russian counterintelligence.

	“They would have been all over him,” the former official said. “There are aspects of this [dossier] that are believable when you read it. There are other aspects that aren’t.”

	Some details would seem relatively easy for the FBI to assess, including meetings between close associates of Trump and Putin allies.

	But a senior law enforcement official acknowledged that other claims — including sweeping characterizations of relationships and rivalries inside the Kremlin — are more elusive. “This is not something we can validate or check out,” the official said. “It’s the view of people in Russia. It’s not like we can go out and determine its veracity.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	KING: ...yourself, Admiral Rogers, Director Brennan, and General Clapper went to Trump tower to meet with President Trump. The media reports are that at the end of that meeting, Director Comey, you presented president-elect Trump with a copy of the now infamous or famous dossier. And I don't know how many people were in the room, but within hours, that was leaked to the media and that gave the media the excuse or the rationale to publish almost the entire dossier.

	Do you -- does that violate any law? I mean you were at a classified briefing with the president-elect of the United States and it had to be a very, very small universe of people who knew that you handed them that dossier and it was leaked out within hours. Are you making any effort to find out who leaked it and do you believe that constitute a criminal violation?

	COMEY: I can't say, Mr. King except I can answer in general.


The FBI knew the dossier was unverified and suspicious. The best thing they could have done would have been to ignore it, and the second best thing would to downplay it. Instead, Comey decided to brief everybody about the dossier and make it look like the FBI took it seriously. While members of the FBI were trying to discredit it, Comey's friend Benjamin Wittes (http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/24/politics/benjamin-wittes-james-comey-friend-anderson-cooper-cnntv/index.html) went to the media to tell everybody that the briefings meant the dossier has credibility:


https://www.wsj.com/articles/spy-agencies-investigating-claims-trump-advisers-worked-with-russian-agents-1484101731
	January 9, 2017 

	Spy Agencies Investigating Claims Trump Advisers Worked With Russian Agents

	By Shane Harris, Devlin Barrett and Alan Cullison

	...The FBI has found no evidence that he traveled to the Czech Republic, where the meeting allegedly took place in August of last year, officials said.


https://www.lawfareblog.com/why-are-trump-allegations-hanging-around-when-they-havent-been-substantiated
	By Susan Hennessey, Benjamin Wittes

	Thursday, January 12, 2017, 5:39 PM

	On one hand, the fact that no specifics appear to have been validated should give everyone a lot of pause. If someone puts a lot of falsifiable facts on the table and large numbers of people spend large amounts of time trying to corroborate them and cannot do so, that generally tends to indicate that they are not true.

	And yet, the intelligence community briefed the President. It appears the FBI is continuing its investigation. DNI James Clapper issued a statement yesterday, reading in part:

		The IC has not made any judgment that the information in this document is reliable, and we did not rely upon it in any way for our conclusions. However, part of our obligation is to ensure that policymakers are provided with the fullest possible picture of any matters that might affect national security.

	This indicates that while the documents have not been validated, the government continues to take them seriously for some reason.

	The intelligence community simply does not concern itself with every crazy allegation against a sitting or incoming President that might be circulating or out there in the ether. 


It's unclear why Comey acted like the dossier was important and continued to promote it, even as British and U.S. officials speculated that the document was a Russian fake. Reportedly, this isn't the only time Comey has confused U.S. officials and the public about Russian forgeries, either. When the FBI received a Russian intelligence document they determined to be a fake, Comey didn't tell lawmakers the document was fake when he briefed them on it:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/how-a-dubious-russian-document-influenced-the-fbis-handling-of-the-clinton-probe/2017/05/24/f375c07c-3a95-11e7-9e48-c4f199710b69_story.html
	How a dubious Russian document influenced the FBI’s handling of the Clinton probe

	A secret document that officials say played a key role in then-FBI Director James B. Comey’s handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation has long been viewed within the FBI as unreliable and possibly a fake, according to people familiar with its contents.

	In the midst of the 2016 presidential primary season, the FBI received what was described as a Russian intelligence document claiming a tacit understanding between the Clinton campaign and the Justice Department over the inquiry into whether she intentionally revealed classified information through her use of a private email server.

	The Russian document cited a supposed email describing how then-Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch had privately assured someone in the Clinton campaign that the email investigation would not push too deeply into the matter. If true, the revelation of such an understanding would have undermined the integrity of the FBI’s investigation.

	Current and former officials have said that Comey relied on the document in making his July decision to announce on his own, without Justice Department involvement, that the investigation was over. That public announcement — in which he criticized Clinton and made extensive comments about the evidence — set in motion a chain of other FBI moves that Democrats now say helped Trump win the presidential election.

	But according to the FBI’s own assessment, the document was bad intelligence — and according to people familiar with its contents, possibly even a fake sent to confuse the bureau.

	...From the moment the bureau received the document from a source in early March 2016, its veracity was the subject of an internal debate at the FBI. Several people familiar with the matter said the bureau’s doubts about the document hardened in August when officials became more certain that there was nothing to substantiate the claims in the Russian document. FBI officials knew the bureau never had the underlying email with the explosive allegation, if it ever existed.

	...“It didn’t mean anything to the investigation until after [senior FBI officials] had to defend themselves,” said one person familiar with the matter. “Then they decided it was important. But it’s junk, and they already knew that.”

	An FBI spokesman declined to comment. Comey did not respond to requests for comment.

	...After the bureau first received the document, it attempted to use the source to obtain the referenced email but could not do so, these people said. The source that provided the document, they said, had previously supplied other information that the FBI was also unable to corroborate.


(Since it needs to be asked: is that source Christopher Steele?)


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	GRASSLEY: Okay, moving on to another subject, the New York Times recently reported that the FBI had found a troubling email among the ones the Russians hacked from Democrat operatives. The email reportedly provided assurances that Attorney General Lynch would protect Secretary Clinton by making sure the FBI investigation “didn't go too far.”

	How, and when, did you first learn of this document? Also, who sent it and who received it?

	COMEY: That's not a question I can answer in this forum, Mr. Chairman, because it would call for a classified response. I have briefed leadership of the intelligence committees on that particular issue, but I can't talk about it here.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/26/politics/james-comey-fbi-investigation-fake-russian-intelligence/index.html
	In classified sessions with members of Congress several months ago, Comey described those emails in the Russian claim and expressed his concern that this Russian information could "drop" and that would undermine the Clinton investigation and the Justice Department in general, according to one government official.

	Still, Comey did not let on to lawmakers that there were doubts about the veracity of the intelligence, according to sources familiar with the briefings. It is unclear why Comey was not more forthcoming in a classified setting.

	...The Washington Post reported Wednesday that this Russian intelligence was unreliable. US officials now tell CNN that Comey and FBI officials actually knew early on that this intelligence was indeed false.

	In fact, acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe went to Capitol Hill Thursday to push back on the notion that the FBI was duped, according to a source familiar with a meeting McCabe had with members of the Senate intelligence committee.

	...In classified sessions with members of Congress several months ago, Comey described those emails in the Russian claim and expressed his concern that this Russian information could "drop" and that would undermine the Clinton investigation and the Justice Department in general, according to one government official.

	Still, Comey did not let on to lawmakers that there were doubts about the veracity of the intelligence, according to sources familiar with the briefings. It is unclear why Comey was not more forthcoming in a classified setting.

	Sources close to Comey tell CNN he felt that it didn't matter if the information was accurate, because his big fear was that if the Russians released the information publicly, there would be no way for law enforcement and intelligence officials to discredit it without burning intelligence sources and methods. There were other factors behind Comey's decision, sources say. 

	In at least one classified session, Comey cited that intelligence as the primary reason he took the unusual step of publicly announcing the end of the Clinton email probe.

	In that briefing, Comey did not even mention the other reason he gave in public testimony for acting independently of the Justice Department -- that Lynch was compromised because Bill Clinton boarded her plane and spoke to her during the investigation, these sources told CNN.

	Multiple US officials tell CNN that to this day Russia is trying to spread false information in the US -- through elected officials and American intelligence and law enforcement operatives -- in order to cloud and confuse ongoing investigations.


If these documents are Russian fakes, Comey hasn't done a very good job of making that clear. Is he acting on the belief that they're credible?


http://www.npr.org/2017/06/07/531643428/comey-opening-statement-for-senate-intelligence-hearing-annotated
	and (2) to the extent there was some effort to compromise an incoming President, we could blunt any such effort with a defensive briefing.


http://time.com/4810345/james-comey-testimony-real-time-transcript/
	Chairman Richard Burr - North Carolina:
	If you've got a 36-page document of specific claims that are out there, the FBI would have to -- for counterintelligence reasons -- try to verify anything that might be claimed in there, one, and probably first and foremost, is the counterintelligence concerns that we have about blackmail? would that be an accurate statement?

	James Comey:
	Yes if the FBI receives a credible allegation there is some attempt to coerce an American on behalf of a foreign power that's the basis on which a case is open.


Or was he just worried they'll leak to the press?


http://www.npr.org/2017/06/07/531643428/comey-opening-statement-for-senate-intelligence-hearing-annotated
	Among those reasons were: (1) we knew the media was about to publicly report the material and we believed the IC should not keep knowledge of the material and its imminent release from the President-Elect;


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-fbi-leaks-idUSKBN12Y2QD
	FBI fear of leaks drove decision on emails linked to Clinton: sources

 	FBI Director James Comey was driven in part by a fear of leaks from within his agency when he decided to tell Congress the FBI was investigating newly discovered emails related to Hillary Clinton, law enforcement sources said on Thursday.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	SEN. DIANNE FEINSTEIN (D-CALIF.): ...Why didn't you just do the investigation as you would normally with no public announcement?

	COMEY: A great question, senator. Thank you. October 27, the investigative team that had finished the investigation in July focused on Secretary Clinton's emails asked to meet with me.

	...And so I stared at speak and conceal. Speak would be really bad. There's an election in 11 days, Lordy, that would be really bad. Concealing in my view would be catastrophic, not just to the FBI, but well beyond. And honestly, as between really bad and catastrophic, I said to my team we got to walk into the world of really bad. I've got to tell Congress that we're restarting this, not in some frivolous way, in a hugely significant way.


Comey doesn't speak as to what the catastrophic consequences of "concealing" news of the emails on Weiner's laptop would have been (although he did conceal that the emails were duplicates: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/onpolitics/2016/11/06/read-full-text-comeys-letter-new-clinton-emails/93398304/ which might have had consequences of its own: Clinton's polling didn't fully recover after the announcement). But if his Oct 28 letter was motivated by "fear of leaks," then we'd have to believe that all the Russians have to do to swing our elections is mail forgeries to the FBI. 

But U.S. intelligence knows how to deal with Russian forgeries:


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP91-00901R000600210056-1.pdf
	CIA, allies change policy, begin openly exposing Soviet intelligence

	Washington (KNT)--The Central Intelligence Agency and allied intelligence agencies have declared open season on their KGB counterparts, exposing Soviet intelligence operations throughout the world.

	In the weeks following the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, there have been major exposures of Soviet spy networks in New Zealand, Spain, Canada and Japan. Agents have been exposed and, in some cases, expelled.

	Intelligence veterans note that this flurry of "rollbacks" is in marked contrast to the days of detente when the tight little world of spy versus spy simmered clandestinely.

	In addition, the CIA has given reporters and friendly intelligence agencies hundreds of pages of previously secret documents about the KGB's activities. They detail recent plots to discredit United States peace moves in the Mideast and to derail nuclear arms policy talks between the U.S. and Western European allies.

	"There are always a lot of spy cases on the back burner," said a former U.S. counterespionage official, who kept tabs on the KGB during the Cold War. "Sometimes word comes down to bring them in. It's like deciding wen to play your trump in a card game."

	Perhaps most damaging to the KGB was a hearing on Capitol Hill early this month. For the first time in the CIA's history, testimony by the agency's chief spy-master, the director of covert operations, was handed to reporters. Until then, John McMahon's identity as deputy director for operations was itself a secret.

	Mr. McMahon's testimony disclosed a mass of sensitive data. It included copies of what Mr. McMahon called KGB forgeries of American diplomatic documents, which were part of an apparent scheme to undermine relations between the U.S. and Egyptian President Anwar el Sadat.

	Mr. McMahon told the House Oversight Subcommittee on Intelligence that the KGB forged a letter over the fabricated signature of Herman F. Eilts, ambassador to Egypt, stating that the U.S. was planning to dump Mr. Sadat.

	"We must repudiate him [Mr. Sadat] and get rid of him without hesitation," said the falsified letter, which was addressed to Adam Stansfield Turner, director of central intelligence. Mr. McMahon said the letter was planted in a Syrian newspaper October 1, and was the KGB's third forgery involving Mr. Eilts's "signature."

	In his testimony, Mr. McMahon said, "The KGB exercises day-to-day operation responsibility for forgery efforts, but its annual and five-to-seven-year work plans are approved by the highest levels of the Soviet political authority."

	In all, Mr. McMahon gave the subcommittee 16 documents he called KGB forgeries. They show the Soviet spy agency writing nonexistent press conferences for President Carter in which he made insulting remarks about Greece, an Army field manual urging subversion of host countries and many falsified diplomatic cables.

	Mr. McMahon also disclosed a CIA estimate of how much the KGB spends a year--"our rough estimate of $3 billion a year is probably a conservative figure."

	The CIA estimated that the KGB spent $200 million last year for support to guerilla groups, $100 million on clandestine radio stations and another #200 million for "special campaigns"--including an effort to stop American plans to build the neutron bomb and place nuclear missiles in Europe.

	A spokesman for the House subcommittee said Mr. McMahon's testimony delivered in secret session February 6, was released last week to "dramatize" recent increases in Soviet forgery schemes. [author's aside: don't you wish we had a House Intelligence Committee like that today?] Mr. McMahon said the KGB had been using forgeries since the 1950s.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	COMEY: ...It was an incredibly painful choice, but actually not all that hard between very bad and catastrophic. I had to tell Congress that we were taking these additional steps. I prayed to find a third door. I couldn't find it.


If Comey knew there was a Russian plot to discredit our institutions, why would he let it affect his decision making? If he cares so much about transparency, why not educate the American public and expose the plot? That's what our intelligence agencies did before.

Actually, I asked Comey to do exactly that. When I started doing this about a year ago, I knew the Russians were using propaganda to politicize their interference. I thought that our elected officials were too untrustworthy or partisan to convince the public of what was the Russians were doing. I had found and interacted with Russian propagandists promoting Trump and inciting violence and racism on social media, and I knew there was a lot more going on than what the government was telling us. What America needed, I thought, was someone honest and apolitical to tell us what was really going on. After hearing his speech in the July 7th Oversight hearings, I became convinced Comey was the answer to all of our problems:


https://www.c-span.org/video/?412315-1/fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-hillary-clinton-email-probe&start=11658
	Rep Desaulnier: Director, I just want to thank you as others have, and I know you don't need this. But I think the American people clearly need to hear it. You've done a wonderful job today. But there are moments in my political life and as an American where I despair for the future of this country, not often. But in those moments comes an individual like yourself, either by providence or good fortune or by the framework of the U.S. constitution. I really believe you served this country and all Americans well, irrespective of their party affiliation.

	Really two lines of questions: one is I--another colleague has brought this up--but you mentioned just previous testimony about the bedrock and the importance of public confidence and public safety institutions, yours and all. So I just want to give you an opportunity, I think you have responded to this multiple times, but give you a little more opportunity because I think it's important for the American public to know that the system isn't rigged, that there are people such as yourself and the fifteen individuals who worked on this case and others that do their job and believe in the constitution of the United States. And if you have any further comments about comments that would say that the system's rigged and Americans should give up on the system.

	Director Comey: One of the reasons I welcome to have the opportunity to have this conversation is I was raised by great parents who taught me you can't care what other people think about you. Actually, in my business, I have to, and deeply do, that people have confidence that the system's not fixed, against black people, for rich people, for powerful people. It's very, very important that the American people understand that there really are people that you pay for with your tax dollars who don't give a rip about Democrats or Republicans or this or that, who care about finding out what is true. And I am lucky to lead an organization that is that way to its core. I get a ten-year term to ensure that I stay outside of politics, but in a way it's easy. I lead an organization that is resolutely apolitical. We are tough aggressive people. If we can make a case, we'll make a case. We do not care what the person's stripes are or what their bank account looks like.

	And I worry very much when people doubt that. It's the reason I did the press conference I did two days ago. I care about the FBI's reputation, I care about the Justice Department, I care about the whole system deeply. And so I decided I'm going to do something no director's ever done before. I'm not going to tell the Attorney General or anybody else what I'm going to say or even that I'm going to say it. They didn't know, nor did the media know what I was going to talk about until I walked out and offered extraordinary transparency which I'm sure confused and bugged a lot of people.

	It's essential in this democracy that people see as much as they can so they can make their judgment. Again, they may conclude I'm an idiot, I should reason differently, but what I hope they will not conclude is that I'm a dishonest person. I'm here trying to do the right thing in the right way, and I lead 36,000 people who have that as their spine. That's what I want them to know. I don't care that people agree or disagree. That's what's wonderful about our Democracy. But at its core, you need to know there are good people trying to do the right thing all day long. And you pay for them and we'll never forget that.


In Comey I saw someone devoted to the values of our country, unafraid to break norms to tell the American public what we needed to hear. I knew the Russians were trying to break-down the values that hold-together our society, and I saw that their propagandists were attacking Comey. So I made it my missions to defend Comey however I could, waging a sort of one-man counter-propaganda war on his behalf on social media.

I kept watching Comey's hearings. When I saw that Congress was attacking him for his handling of the email investigation, I was sure Comey knew more than what he was letting on. I convinced myself that Comey knew there was a Russian plot to cause chaos and discredit our institutions, and I thought that Congress somehow didn't know about it, or that maybe Comey tried to warn them and they didn't believe him, and that's why they were attacking him. So I did my best to try find evidence of what the Russians were going to do and warn Congress. Like Comey, I was worried that there would be a catastrophe in the coming weeks.

Around early October, I thought I had figured it out. I sent members of the Oversight Committee an email saying what I'd seen in media reports: that the Russians were plotting a campaign of chaos and violence on election day. On top of this, I warned them that the Russians could make this even worse by hacking our voting registration systems. I took Comey at his word when said the Russians wouldn't be able to tamper with the vote:


https://judiciary.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/114-91_22125.pdf
	Ms. LOFGREN. All right. I am hoping that we can get some insight in an appropriate classified setting on that. Now, we have watched with some concern—and I know you are also concerned—about the Russian intrusion into our election system. It has been reported to us that the Russians hacked into the Democratic National Committee database. They also hacked into the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. And it seems that they are making an effort to influence the outcome of this election. We have been warned that the information stolen might not just be released but also be altered and forged and then released,in an effort to impact the election here in the United States. Yesterday, there were press reports—and I don’t know if they are accurate, and I am interested if you are able to tell us—that the Russians have also hacked the telephones of Democratic staffers and that there was a request for Democratic staffers to bring their cell phones into the FBI to have them mirrored. Can you tell us anything about that? 

	Mr. COMEY. I can’t at this point. What I can say in response to the first part of your question, any hacking is something we take very seriously. Any hacking in connection with this Nation’s election system is something we take extraordinarily seriously, the whole of government. So it is something the FBI is spending a lot of time on right now to try and understand. So what are they up to and what does it involve and what is the scope of it to equip the President to decide upon the appropriate response. And so that is one of reasons I have to be very careful about what I say about it. That work is ongoing. I should make clear to folks when we talk about our election system, there has been a lot of press reporting about attempts to intrude into voter registration databases. Those are connected to the Internet. That is very different than the electoral mechanism in this country, which is not. 


So, I concluded that the Russians wouldn't be able to influence the election outcome, but they would be able to cause chaos or even violence by making it look like the vote was being rigged, just like what happened during the primaries:


http://tucson.com/news/local/officials-look-into-reports-of-pima-county-voting-problems/article_12c366a5-cea7-5152-89c1-b9b47e9ac379.html
	As Maricopa County voters dealt with excruciatingly long wait times, Pima County residents struggled with a different challenge on Tuesday: incorrect party-affiliation listings that prevented some from casting a ballot.


http://www.usnews.com/news/politics/articles/2016-04-25/poll-worker-voters-given-wrong-ballots-in-arizona-primary
	Voters dismayed with Arizona's problematic presidential primary voiced frustrations with long lines and registration issues Monday during a hearing for a court challenge to have the election results thrown out.


http://www.latimes.com/politics/la-pol-ca-voting-problems-20160607-snap-htmlstory.html
	California voters faced a tough time at the polls Tuesday, with many voters saying they have encountered broken machines, polling sites that opened late and incomplete voter rolls, particularly in Los Angeles County.

	The result? Instead of a quick in-and-out vote, many California voters were handed the dreaded pink provisional ballot — which takes longer to fill out, longer for election officials to verify and which tends to leave voters wondering whether their votes will be counted.


http://koin.com/2016/04/20/voters-find-wrong-party-affiliation-on-oregon-registry/
	Voter registration errors aren’t just occurring in states like Arizona and New York. Some Oregonians claim their party affiliation recently changed on the state’s digital registry, and they don’t know why.

	Elections Director Jim Williams says 120-150 voters are calling the Secretary of State’s office every day to complain about errors in party affiliations.


http://gothamist.com/2016/04/06/voter_confusion_primary_ny.php
	Since shortly before the late deadline to register to vote in the April 19th presidential primary in New York, state Board of Elections spokesman Tom Connolly said his office has been fielding nearly 100 calls a day from voters who are "pissed off" about their registration status, for one reason or another. On social media, there are dozens of reports from voters who say they checked their registration online recently and found that their party affiliation had been switched, which is disqualifying because New York's primaries are closed, or that that their registration couldn't be found altogether.


https://news.vice.com/article/new-york-lawsuit-voter-registration-problems-primary
	More than 200 voters have signed onto an emergency lawsuit against the state — a majority of them Democrats — saying that their voter registration was inaccurately changed, never updated, or had disappeared altogether. Election Justice USA, a new voter suppression watchdog, filed the lawsuit on behalf of New York voters on Tuesday morning just before the polls opened.

	Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said in a statement on Wednesday that he was "deeply troubled by the volume and consistency of voting irregularities" during the primary. Schneiderman's office set up a hotline for voters experiencing issues at the polls on Tuesday, and he said that his office received "more than one thousand complaints."


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/officials-investigating-why-126000-voters-were-purged-from-ny-rolls/
	Multiple investigations were launched and a top election official was suspended this week after tens of thousands of registered voters were found to be missing from the rolls during Tuesday’s Democratic primary in New York.


http://www.californiacountynews.org/news/2016/07/riverside-da-someone-changed-voters%E2%80%99-party-affiliations-without-consent
	Someone with access to voters' personal information used the state’s voter registration site to change the party affiliations of dozens of Riverside County residents ahead of the June 7 election, District Attorney Mike Hestrin said Wednesday. The revelation is raising serious concerns about voter fraud and the security of the state's online voter registration system in particular.


http://capitolfax.com/2016/07/21/foreign-hack-attack-on-state-voter-registration-site/
	The State Board of Elections (SBE) fell victim to a cyberattack that was detected on July 12, 2016. Specifically, the target was the [Illinois Vital Records System] database. Once discovered, State Board of Elections closed the point of entry. On July 13th, once the severity of the attack was realized, as a precautionary measure, the entire IVRS system was shut down, including online voter registration.


http://www.azfamily.com/story/32388223/fbi-trying-to-determine-if-arizona-voter-database-was-hacked
	State cybersecurity investigators are trying to determine if personal information about millions of Arizona voters was improperly accessed or tampered with after the FBI found evidence of a potential hack.

	Arizona’s voter registration system remained offline [July 6, 2016] as a team combed the troves of data for any issues, said Matthew Roberts, a spokesman for the Arizona Secretary of State’s Office.


I sent all this to members of Congress, telling them now is not the time for partisan games, and we have to act to warn Americans of what the Russians have been doing and could do on election day. I told them Congress or Director Comey should warn the public that Russia could cause chaos and hack voting registrations again, lest Russia use their propaganda to blame their hacking on Clinton (whom many Trump supporters expected to rig the election  http://time.com/4533059/donald-trump-election-poll-hillary-clinton/), and potentially cause riots and unrest.

Instead, a few weeks later, Comey sent his email investigation letter to the Oversight Committee, and Rep. Chaffetz immediately leaked it. Eleven days later, Trump won in a surprise victory.

There was no chaos, riots, or terrorist attacks. As it turns out, the worries about election day violence might have been overblown:


https://qz.com/829357/us-presidential-election-2016-how-to-prepare-for-election-day-violence-if-trump-loses-or-wins/
	Americans like me who survived Ferguson understand just how bad Election Day violence could get
	Sarah Kendzior
	November 07, 2016

	In August, Donald Trump’s adviser, Roger Stone, announced there would be a “bloodbath” should the GOP nominee lose. Since then, Trump’s white supremacist fans have given many indications that they intend to make good on his promise. Trump campaign chairman Steven Bannon has bragged of “voter suppression” efforts while fans proclaim plans of voter intimidation. Authorities have thwarted violence aimed at Muslim communities, including a planned bomb attack in Kansas and a planned Columbine-style shooting in California. A black church was burned, with Trump’s name spray-painted on the side.

	Numerous militia groups, empowered by the recent acquittal of a militia in Oregon, have proclaimed they will enact vengeance in Trump’s name as well. Meanwhile, factions of the FBI—the organization that arrested the Kansas bombers and are responsible for tracking homegrown terrorism—appear to be pulling for a Trump win, leading some to question whether it can be trusted to carry out its nonpartisan duty to protect people targeted for violence.


https://twitter.com/sarahkendzior/status/864347320460001281
	Bombshell: Initial Thoughts on the Washington Post’s Game-Changing Story http://www.lawfareblog.com/bombshell-initial-thoughts-washington-posts-game-changing-story … <-- Trump tells state secrets to Russians


https://twitter.com/sarahkendzior/status/859951648369766400
	The Steele dossier story was broken in Oct 2016 by David Corn, head of Mother Jones Washington bureau. That's a "low-level blogger"?


https://twitter.com/sarahkendzior/status/819581612480266240
	Intelligence sources vouch for credibility of Russia dossier author


https://twitter.com/sarahkendzior/status/847446100072181761
	BBC News - Trump Russia dossier key claim 'verified'


https://beta.theglobeandmail.com/opinion/comey-testimony-reveals-trump-is-running-america-like-a-crime-boss/article35252262/
	Comey testimony reveals Trump is running America like a crime boss
	Sarah Kendzior


There were, however, reports of unusual statistical anomalies in key swing-states:


https://econsnapshot.com/2016/12/06/electronic-voting-machines-and-the-election/
	It’s tough to draw precise conclusions as to what these correlations mean. It’s still possible that there are other factors driving our results, other than electronic voting. But, what we do know is that results in key swing states differ in counties with electronic voting. Further, the patterns in these counties are not exhibited by other similar but not electorally important counties across the country. Additionally, electronic voting had no impact in swing states during the 2012 election. Taken together, it seems tough to dismiss the correlations that we have found in the data. While we don’t know how to interpret the findings practically, it certainly lends credence to the efforts to initiate recounts in several of the swing states.


http://tdmsresearch.com/2016/11/10/2016-presidential-election-table/
	According to the exit polls conducted by Edison Research, Clinton won four key battleground states (NC, PA, WI, and FL) in the 2016 Presidential Election that she went on to lose in the computerized vote counts.  With these states Clinton wins the Electoral College with a count of 306 versus 232 for Trump. Clinton also won the national exit poll by 3.2% and won the national vote count by 2.1% or about three million votes.

	Exit polls were conducted in 28 states. In 22 states the discrepancies between the exit polls and the vote count favored Trump. In 12 of these states the discrepancies favoring Trump exceeded the margin of error of the state’s exit poll.


This was pretty disheartening, but I didn't stop. Since then, I have keeping up with the news, reading-up on active measures, finding and documenting Russia's propaganda and doing my best to figure out what they're up to and tell as many people as I can.

A part of what drives me is seeing the mismatch between the narrative on Russian meddling that the public is getting versus what historians, verified experts, and suspected Russian propagandists are actually saying. After the Cold War, a big part of the Soviet's strategy was to pretend like they are weaker than they actually are--a common refrain in their propaganda is "Russia has the economy the size of Italy! How can they be a threat?" But this theme permeates a lot of their propaganda (e.g. "why does the big mean U.S. pick on little Russia?"), especially the misinformation about their activities. They present Russia's attack to the public as just a new twist on their routine cyberspying on U.S. officials ("This time, they released it!"), as if Putin paid off a few geeks in the KGB's basement to hack the DNC's emails and a courier to carry them to Wikileaks. You can see it in the Steele Dossier--arranging a bungled meeting to figure out how Trump can make "deniable" payments to freelance hackers, Putin "sacking" his advisor after his (obvious) connections to Trump are exposed, Russia making dual-use of Trump to spy on Putin's oligarch buddies, and the FSB conducting ad-hoc foreign recruitment by lying in wait for Westerners to make business trips to Russia before somehow snaring them with blackmail. And then pundits on The Daily Beast wonder: how do we handle this new era of cyber warfare?

Just knowing about the illegals program from the spies arrested in 2010 casts suspicion on this whole narrative, and even trying a guess at its size is about enough to discredit it. Why have Micheal Cohen and Carter Page go back and forth with incriminating information between the Kremlin and the U.S. when you have a network of trained deep cover spies? Why bother making incriminating payments or orders to puppet like Trump, when you can build up a layer of trained agents of influence as his advisors?

And for that matter, why bother with hacking at all? If the Kremlin has deep-cover spies all over U.S. policymaking circles, it only takes one in the DNC to lift their emails to Wikileaks in a plausibly-deniable way (or better, to recruit an actual American to do it). And if they have the likes of I.F. Stone, Seymore Hersh, and Glenn Greenwald on their spy roster, they could pick from a menu of semi-famous journalists to use as the middleman, perhaps waiting to break the story that the Russian hacking story was a "hoax all along."

The beginning and end of the story of Russia's meddling that's presented to the public is that they spread some fake news on social media and hacked and released Hillary Clinton's emails, bringing connotations of a cheap and unsophisticated operation conducted almost entirely from Russia's soil. But if this is how the American public thinks of Russia's active measures, they're not going to guess if an article they're reading int New York Times is a Russian press placement, if an "expert" who's advice they follow is an agent of influence, or if the politician they support is working for a foreign government. And it distracts from the more insidious and sustained parts of active measures, like the promotion of racism (https://medium.com/@bb06/ideological-subversion-and-racism-f3d09421cf78) and other toxic worldviews. It's telling that U.S. officials need to point out that "Russia's meddling continues" in Congressional hearings--do people know how it continues? Why?

The public needs to know that active measures is more than just hacking and elections. Right now I'm pretty sure the U.S. Government knows the American people are under attack, directly, by a foreign power. It is a great disservice to not let them know. That's why I've been doing what I'm doing--almost everything people need to know is in the public domain already, you just need to bring it to people's attention.

That's why I've been unhappy with a lot of our Government officials, and at least a part of why I think some of them aren't loyal to the United States. We can do better than this:


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	SPEIER: Thank you, Ranking Member. Thank you gentlemen for your service to our country.

	You know, I think it's really important as we sit here that we explain this to the American people in a way that they can understand it. Why are we talking about all of this? So my first question to each of you is, is Russia our adversary? Mr. Comey?

	COMEY: Yes.

	SPEIER: Mr. Rogers?

	ROGERS: Yes.

	SPEIER: Is -- do they intend to do us harm?

	ROGERS: They intend to ensure, I believe, that they gain advantage at our expense.

	SPEIER: Director Comey?

	COMEY: Yes, I wanna be -- harm can have many meetings. They're an adversary and so they wanna resist us, oppose us, undermine us, in lots of different ways.

	SPEIER: So one of the terms that we hear often is hybrid warfare. And I'd like to just stand give a short definition of what it is. It blends conventional warfare, irregular warfare and cyber warfare. The aggressor intends to avoid attribution or retribution.

	So would you say that Russia engaged in hybrid warfare in its effort to undermine our Democratic process and engage in our electoral process? Director Comey?

	COMEY: I don't think I would use the term warfare. I think you'd -- you'd wanna ask experts in the definition of war. They engaged in a multifaceted campaign of active measures to undermine our democracy and hurt one of the candidates and -- and hope to help one of the other candidates.

	ROGERS: I'd agree with the director.

	SPEIER: All right, well, thank you both. I actually think that their engagement was an act of war, an act of hybrid warfare and I think that's why the American people should be concerned about it.

	...LOBIONDO: OK. So very briefly the -- if you can describe the elements of the Russia's active measures in the campaign in the 2016 election. We've only got 35 seconds, but that's the first thing I want to get into about exactly what they were doing if you can tell us anything about that.

	ROGERS: So we saw cyber used, we saw the use of external media, we saw the use of disinformation, we saw the use of leaking of information, much of which was not altered.

	I mean, we saw several, if you will, common traits that we have both seen over time as well as I would argue that the difference this time was that the -- the cyber dimension and the fact that the release of so much information that they had extracted via cyber is a primary tool to try to drive an outcome.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	SASSE: When we talk about things like cyber investigations right now, so often on cable TV it becomes a shirts and skins exercise. So without asking you to comment about anything that's retrospective about 2016, do you think it's likely that in 2018 and beyond you're going to see more targeting of U.S. public discourse and elections?

	COMEY: I do. I think one of the lessons that particularly the Russians may have drawn from this is that this works. And so as I said last -- a month or so ago I expect to see them back in 2018, especially 2020.

	SASSE: You regularly testify -- and correct me if I've -- if I've misheard you but I think you've regularly testified that you don't think the Bureau is short of resources. You don't come before us and make big increased appropriations requests. And yet those of us who are very concerned about cyber look at the U.S. government writ large and think were not at all prepared for the future.

	Can you tell us what the FBI is doing to prepare for that 2018 and 2020 circumstance that you envision?

	COMEY: Without giving to much detail, we have a -- enormous part of the FBI in our counter intelligence division and in our cyber division that focuses on just that threat and making sure that we do everything that we can to understand how the bad guys might come at us. And as I talked about earlier to equip the civilian agencies that are responsible for hardening our infrastructure with all the information we have about how they're going to come at us.

	SASSE: And if you had international security domain increased resources, how would you spend another marginal dollar beyond what you expect to receive now?

	COMEY: I probably have a tie between investing more in upgrading our systems to make sure we're keeping pace with the bar of excellence. And probably to hire additional cyber agents and analysts.


http://www.newsweek.com/fbi-director-james-comey-russian-tampering-election-576417
	FBI Director James Comey attempted to go public as early as the summer of 2016 with information on Russia’s campaign to influence the U.S. presidential election, but Obama administration officials blocked him from doing so, two sources with knowledge of the matter tell Newsweek.

	Well before the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) accused the Russian government of tampering with the U.S. election in an October 7 statement, Comey pitched the idea of writing an op-ed about the Russian campaign during a meeting in the White House Situation Room in June or July.

	“He had a draft of it or an outline. He held up a piece of paper in a meeting and said, ‘I want to go forward. What do people think of this?’” says a source with knowledge of the meeting, which included Secretary of State John Kerry, Attorney General Loretta Lynch, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and National Security Adviser Susan Rice.

	But many in the room didn’t like the idea, and White House officials thought the announcement should be a coordinated message backed by multiple agencies, the source says. “An op-ed doesn’t have the same stature. It comes from one person.”


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/three-white-house-officials-tied-to-files-shared-with-house-intelligence-chairman/2017/03/30/de4b8c30-1589-11e7-9e4f-09aa75d3ec57_story.html
	Farkas, in an interview with The Post, said she “didn’t give anybody anything except advice,” was not a source for any stories and had nothing to leak. Noting that she left government in October 2015, she said, “I was just watching like anybody else, like a regular spectator” as initial reports of Russia contacts began to surface after the election.

	As a former staff member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and a former Defense official involved with Russian affairs, she said she “got worried” that the Obama White House was not briefing Congress on what it knew. “I know how the Russians operate,” she said, and called former colleagues to make sure Congress was being informed.


http://docs.house.gov/meetings/FA/FA00/20170309/105674/HHRG-115-FA00-Transcript-20170309.pdf
	UNDERMINING DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS AND SPLINTERING NATO: RUSSIAN DISINFORMATION AIMS

	HEARING

	BEFORE THE

	COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS
	HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

	...Prepared Testimony and Statement for the Record of

	Toomas Hendrik Ives

	...What are the mechanisms of this asymmetric cyber war?

	- Kompramat, is the Rssian term for publishing (real or fake) compromising materials on opponents;
	- hacking is breaking into servers and stealing data;
	- doxing, combines the two: to publish hacked documents to embarrass or harm opponents. The first large scale case of this were Wikileak's publication of some quarter million U.S. diplomatic cables in 2010, the most recent only this week the publication of CIA materials.
	- Finally there are *fake news*, an old propaganda trick but used far more effectively in the era of social media. KGB fake news in the 1980s of AIDS being invented by CIA had relatively little traction but today social media disseminates false stories with abandon.

	All of these have been combined in the past year as a pincer movement on democratic elections. Hacked private mail is doxed; it appears in social and later mainstream media, after which fake news content spin on these same revelations takes off and goes "viral." Buzzfeed reported that...


	...STATEMENT OF THE HONORABLE LINCOLN P. BLOOMFIELD, JR, CHAIRMAN EMERITUS AND DISTINGUISHED FELLOW

	What I would say is look at Russia’s recent history. For the last 20 or 30 years the trend has been toward open democratization around the world. We saw autocracies disappear in Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, Southeast Asia, Central Asia, the colored revolutions, starting with the Czech Republic and what happened in Poland years ago, and the fall of the Soviet Union, but then more recently in Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan, and Georgia. This, of course, alarmed Mr. Putin and his secret service colleagues who thought that they would lose the whole thing. So what did they do? They tightened down and they moved in a different direction. And I want the members to think about how not only Russia but China, Iran, and Syria, and perhaps others, are regimes that are going to try to stick around forever. They are trying to stay in power as one-party states. How do they do this? They do it by repressing their dissidents, by parking money in foreign banks so that they have assets, by controlling all security services, all the guns, and by censoring the media—that is extremely important.

	...Mr. ROHRABACHER. Well, here we are. Wherever you go, there you are. Let me just note that we just keep hearing sinister words after sinister words. Especially this last thing, oh, how sinister it is that he just showed the top of his passport. Give me a break. Come on. And, also, we got instead of a sinister report from your question to the Ambassador, no, it is not uncommon for people to meet with foreign Ambassadors and foreign diplomats. And how sinister is it that people met with a Russian Ambassador? I am sure that if they were going to plan something really rotten about the United States they would go to the Ambassador, the Russian Ambassador rather than some political operatives that they have running all over the place. This has, this has reached the absurd level of attacks. And let us note, that in order to get Russia, what we are now doing is destabilizing our own democratic system here with that kind of nonsense. I will have to say that during the Cold War, I want to remind everybody, I worked not only with President Reagan but my entire life was dedicated to defeating communism. I felt really great when Ronald Reagan helped us establish peace and the elimination of communism from Russia. We are now dealing with a national power. You know, it is a big power in the world. It is no longer being motivated by communist ideology that has it trying to overthrow democratic governments and replace them with atheistic communist dictatorships. 

	...Mr. SHERMAN. We are here today because this goes beyond a foreign policy issue. This is an issue for the core of America’s democracy. The key issue is did the Trump campaign collude with Russian hackers in the cyber burglary of the Democratic National Committee and related entities? 

	And a related question is whether Trump’s gratitude is pre-venting an appropriate response to Russia’s interference with democracy? Or whether his fear of what they might have on him is preventing that appropriate response? 


I know we can do better because we have before. Compare the above report from this year to this one from 1992:


http://intellit.muskingum.edu/russia_folder/pcw_era/sect_08a.htm
	Soviet Active Measures in the "Post-Cold War" Era 1988-1991

	A Report Prepared at the Request of the United States House of Representatives Committee on Appropriations by the United States Information Agency
	June 1992

	Executive Summary

	Active measures is a Soviet term that refers to the manipulative use of slogans, arguments, disinformation, and carefully selected true information, which the Soviets used to try to influence the attitudes and actions of foreign publics and governments. In addition to examining disinformation, this report looks at the Soviet use of conciliatory, alarmist, and derogatory slogans and arguments in order to illustrate the wide variety of manipulative messages and themes used in active measures operations.

	...Agents of Influence

	One of the most effective, most difficult to detect, and least understood areas of Soviet active measures is the use of agents of influence. Agents of influence are foreigners who have been recruited by the KGB in order to be used to influence the opinions of foreign publics and governments. Agents of influence are extremely useful because they are perceived as loyal patriots of their respective countries who are simply expressing their own personal opinions, not scripts written by the KGB and designed to dovetail with the current actions and priorities of Soviet foreign policy apparatus. The covert influence campaigns that they wage in public and private are not only the most difficult type of active measures operation to identify, but also potentially the most potent if the agent of influence is a senior government official or a respected public figure.

	In the June 6, 1992 issue of Human Events, Herbert Romerstein reported that "a retired high-ranking KGB officer with extensive knowledge about operations against the United States" had identified U.S. journalist I.F. Stone as a longtime Soviet agent of influence. Stone bitterly criticized the policies of the U.S. government for years in his influential private newsletter and other writings. 

	...The Conciliatory Slogans Of New Political Thinking

	In the minds of the Soviet "new thinkers," ending the Cold War did not mean that the systemic struggle between the "two social systems" would stop. Instead, it would shift from the Cold War arenas of the arms race, confrontation, and coercive diplomacy to new, primarily political areas of struggle. The Soviets needed to end the Cold War because their weak economy put them at an impossible disadvantage vis-a-vis an awakened West in an arms race which, if it continued, would mean their inevitable defeat. In order to avoid this and best preserve their power, the Soviet leaders needed to induce the West to abandon the arms race, while at the same time positioning themselves to wage a new form of political warfare against the West: one that sought to achieve power by conciliation rather than confrontation, the appeal of "all-human" values as opposed to "class" values, assigned a key role to the manipulation of international organizations, particularly the United Nations, and sought to use international law as a subterfuge for Soviet attempts to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries rather than the heavy hand of military power and coercive diplomacy.

	As part of the shift to "new thinking," the Soviets did the unthinkable. They deliberately jettisoned the outmoded ideology of communism and embraced a new ideology based on "all-human" values and concerns. They did not do this because they had become converts to the democratic cause. Instead, the Soviet "new thinkers" came to the conclusion that governments, countries, and peoples could be more effectively manipulated by universalist, non-Marxist concepts than by Marxist ones, and set about trying to devise ways to use non-Marxist concepts to achieve traditional Soviet goals. "New thinking" was consciously designed as a communist foreign policy for the post-communist era. It was as if the "chameleons," not the "doves," had triumphed over the "hawks" in the Soviet foreign policy debate.


And I know our government can certainly do better than this:


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP82-00047R000100520005-7.pdf
	Political Indoctrination in Rumania

	The feeling of Rumanian youths is generally favorable towards the US. The majority are anti-Soviet and do not believe the anti-US propagands. Most of the hope to be delivered from Soviet domination through a war between the US and the USSR.

	...The attitude of the Union of Working Youth (Uniunea Tineretului Muneitoreso - UTM) members was outwardly anti-US although only a small number were really Communist indoctrinated. The grammar school children were more likely to be anti-US due to the intensive indoctrination to which they were subjected. Some parents were careful not to let their children know they were listening to the Voice of America broadcasts for fear their children would report them to the authorities.


https://www.thecut.com/2014/02/over-half-kids-social-media-before-age-ten.html
	59 Percent of Tiny Children Use Social Media

	A new study from the safety advisory site Knowthenet finds that 59 percent of kids join social networks before the age of 10. Kidlets: The only consistent thing about them, through all of history, is that they grow up too fast.

	Yes, with their their chubby cheeks and their runny noses, they’re joining Facebook in hordes, setting up their very first social-media profiles. It’s the new rite of passage, isn’t it? Baby’s first profile picture. Baby’s first status update. Baby’s first ironic use of the “Like” button. Baby’s first change-in-relationship-status. Baby’s first subtweet.

	Opinium, which conducted the survey, included reports from over 1,000 parents of kids ages 8 to 16, and 1,000 kids ages 8 to 16. They found that most of these kids (52 percent) signed up for Facebook (despite the posted age restrictions). Other popular social-media sites included WhatsApp (40 percent), BBM (24 percent), and Snapchat (11 percent).


http://www.smh.com.au/world/fake-news-why-the-west-is-blind-to-russias-propaganda-today-20170123-gtxbuw.html
	Fake news: Why the West is blind to Russia's propaganda today

	Russia has skilfully exploited social media to divide the West and increase Moscow's power in Europe, the US and eventually Asia.

	The use of social media as a platform to divide democracies works, in part, because the strategy preys on a fundamental blind spot in open societies: the origin and volume of voices taking part in an online discussion.

	Western countries, inventors of the internet and social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter, tend to see discussion on social media as an open reflection of the public's views.

	That very openness means outside voices can weigh into debates – not to broaden the discussion, but to co-opt arguments and redirect them toward conclusions that undermine Western society and government.

	...This propaganda skews toward extremes, seeking to corrode the broad middle area of agreement needed for the functioning of liberal democracies, wherever they are found, including in the Asia-Pacific region.

	The speed and diffusion of propaganda on social media can create a 360-degree effect for users, so that what they perceive is not seen so much as a coherent ideological message but as the natural and growing consensus of the crowd.

	...Technology used in a certain way, in other words, can dramatically amplify the volume of an argument, view, voice or ideology.

	This was true, especially with groups like the "alt-right", Woolley said, which were effective in making themselves appear much more popular than they were in reality.

	Alt-right figures, in addition to promoting a racist world view, tend to parrot Russian views on global affairs, which itself is a feature of an internationalised movement.

	...Psychology

	At the same time, the focus of Russia's propaganda has changed from Soviet times, when it touted communism's material success and criticised the West's decadence.

	Today's Russian propaganda "is very adaptive and it does not limit itself to any ideological framework", senior editor Olga Irisova of the Russian affairs journal Intersection Project told Fairfax Media.

	This is true of the many voices over which it is carried, including state-backed broadcasters like Sputnik and RT which pride themselves on offering "alternatives" to traditional media. 

	This is a significant change from the time of the Cold War.

	"While during the Cold War it was more or less clear what narratives USSR propaganda charged with communist ideology would promote (capitalism versus communism as an alternative model for development; stories about how bad the life is for people in capitalist countries and how well the Soviet state cared for its people) ... the current Kremlin propaganda can promote almost any narrative that could undermine people's confidence in the liberal way of life," Irisova said.


https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-demographic-of-Pewdiepies-subscribers
	What is the demographic of Pewdiepie's subscribers?

	It is reported that PewDiePie's subscriber base is mostly young teenagers between the ages of 13 and 16

	...He attends to attract the much younger audience rather than the older audiences.


https://www.wired.com/2017/02/pewdiepie-racism-alt-right/
	YouTube star PewDiePie’s fall from grace riled up his 53 million subscribers, but unless you’re a Gen-Z videogamer, you may find the name splashed across many a headline this week unfamiliar. Lucky you. After The Wall Street Journal reported on his pattern of using anti-Semitic jokes in his videos, Disney’s Maker Studios cut ties with the internet celeb, and YouTube canceled the second season of his streaming reality show. People might applaud what look like swift measures, but the moves are long overdue.

	...Given the impossibility of knowing whether he means what he says, you can’t always know how to respond when he does something like, say, hire people to hold up a sign saying “Death to all Jews.”

	...But PewDiePie started racking up questionable jokes almost from the start of his YouTube career nearly seven years ago. Given that long tradition, and the fact he recently claimed that YouTube discriminates against him because he’s white, his fanbase goes beyond gamers. PewDiePie has become a bona fide white-supremacist hero.

	...In another let’s-play video, he mentions that he can’t see people when they’re “too black,” and fans mention that he’s been known to say that “black things” scare him.

	...This 2017 video, in which he decided whether he would “smash,” pass on, or sell particular people into slavery

	...In a jittery rant, he claimed that “YouTube wants my channel gone. They want someone else on top. They want someone really extremely cancerous, like Lilly Singh. I’m white. Can I make that comment? But I do think that’s a problem.”

	Singh—better known by her YouTube alias, Superwoman—is a Canadian-Indian rapper and comedian whose songs, parodies, and calls for positivity and #GirlLove have won her more than 11 million subscribers

	...Check out the banner leading neo-Nazi Andrew Anglin’s The Daily Stormer, which the Southern Poverty Law Center calls the top hate site in America.

	https://www.wired.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Screen-Shot-2017-02-14-at-1.34.51-PM-582x188.png

	The image has been up for weeks, says Heidi Beirich, director of the SPLC’s Intelligence Project. “With PewDiePie, the question is, How did it take them so long?” she says of Disney and YouTube dumping PewDiePie. “Neo-Nazis have been loving this guy. And because he has this massive following, they see those people as supporting their views.”


https://www.dailystormer.com/is-pewdiepie-racist/
	Is PewDiePie Racist?

	Daily Stormer

	And now, for the answer everyone has been looking for… Is PewDiePie an actual Nazi White supremacist?

	Only a scientific test will yield the truth of the matter.


http://www.zeit.de/politik/ausland/2016-09/russia-propaganda-eastern-ukraine-separatists-e-mails
	Cheerful Propaganda and Hate on Command

	The evidence of the extent to which Russia is engaging in psychological warfare against the West is now available in black and white. 


https://www.dailystormer.com/tag/pewdiepie/


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...dailystormer.com...


https://www.marchfortruth.info/
	Across the country, peaceful demonstrations will be arranged on Saturday, June 3rd.

	Our goals are simple:

	An independent commission must be established and Congressional investigations should be properly resourced and pursued free of partisan interests;

	As much information should be made available to the public as possible, and as soon as possible;


http://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2017/06/04/531439721/march-for-truth-protesters-demand-independent-russia-investigation
	March For Truth Protesters Demand Independent Russia Investigation 

	Thousands of protesters gathered around the country in a series of "March for Truth" rallies on Saturday. Demonstrators were calling for a congressional independent commission to investigate connections between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.

	In full view of the White House, protesters in Washington, D.C., demanded answers in the ongoing Russia probe. Chants of "Investigate Trump!" and "Resist, resist!" rang across the National Mall.

	Some protesters even lined up together to spell out "Investigate Trump."

	"I want to know what the ties are to Russia," said Atossa Shafaie, who joined protesters in the nation's capital. "I want to know how Russia has infiltrated our government. I don't think there's a question that they have."


https://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Awww.mcconnell.senate.gov+%22independent+commission%22&source=lnt&tbs=cdr%3A1%2Ccd_min%3A6%2F3%2F2017%2Ccd_max%3A7%2F7%2F2017&tbm=


If our government won't tell us what the Russian government is doing to us, it's up to us to figure it out ourselves. It's especially important to do our best to figure out their strategies and what they're planning next--the better we predict their plans, the harder we make it to for them to carry them out:


https://archive.org/stream/GolitsynAnatoleTheNewLiesForOldOnes/Golitsyn-NewLiesForOld-TheCommunistStrategyOfDeceptionAndDisinformation1984_djvu.txt
	To counter communist strategy and regain the initiative for the West, a new Western strategy is needed, based on a true under- standing of the situation, policy, and strategic disinformation of the communist bloc. Without a clear appreciation of the deceptive nature of Sino-Soviet rivalry and of "liberalization" and splits in the communist world, Western governments, whatever their political complexion, cannot recover from the crisis in their foreign policy and are at risk of sliding into false alliances with one communist state against another. If possible, a moratorium should be imposed on any form of rapprochement with any member of the communist bloc while the reevaluation takes place. The publication could then follow of an allied defense document setting out calmly and clearly the agreed overall Western assessment of current communist bloc policy and the means being used to implement it. Public discussion of the findings would be encouraged by conferences of the Western governments, of political groupings such as the Socialist International, and of the leaders of the moderate, pro- Western Third World nations; parallel professional exchanges would take place between the Western intelligence and counterinteUigence services.

	The effect that an expose on this scale would have should not be underestimated. The communist bloc leaders and strategists would find, if the Western assessment were correct, that their next strategic offensives and moves in the deception plan had been preempted. The initiative would have been snatched from them. Their complicated political, diplomatic, and disinformation operations still in the pipeline would, if pursued, confirm the correctness of the Western assessment. The peoples of the communist bloc, the majority learning for the first time of the deceit on which their country's policy had been based, would — whatever their feelings about its morahty — realize that it would not work in the future and that their leaders had failed. While a communist regime remains successful, the people can be coerced into going along with it. It is when failure — or, at least, lack of new successes — sets in that, as was shown in Hungary and Poland in 1956, real and radical changes may happen. Exposure of a bankrupt policy would unleash powerful political pressures on communist leaders and on their re- gimes, parties, and governments, perhaps forcing them to change their conduct in international relations.

	It will be argued by faint hearts in the West that to proclaim publicly that the full significance of the communist threat is now recognized and that a realistic response is on its way is only to drive the communist leaders to an openly hard-line attitude and even to war. But does this argument stand up? If the threat has been correctly evaluated and properly explained, it will be clear to public opinion that, although disinformation may have concealed the intentions of communist policy, its line could scarcely have been harder.


This, among other reasons, might be why maskirovka is so important to them--it's hard to fool someone who knows your next move.


https://pastebin.com/gqN3yXxg
