


-------



http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/11/world/europe/11russia.html
	The village where Mr. Basayev died is near Nazran, the principal city of Ingushetia, and less than 14 miles from Beslan, in North Ossetia, the site of the school siege that did more than any of the previous attacks to turn many against Mr. Basayev. Even some of the movement’s fighters were reportedly dismayed by the attack on the school and the singling out of hundreds of women and children.



A terrorist attack that split the resistance--sounds familiar. Same deal as with ISIS.


Basayev also, presumably, galvanized some Russians against the Chechen resistance.

It has been said Basayev drove the resistance to more ideological extremes, particularly his brand of Islam.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aslan_Maskhadov
	His political standing within Chechnya became increasingly insecure as he lost control to Basayev and other warlords.

	...Maskhadov attempted with only limited success to curb the growth of Wahhabism and other fundamentalist Muslim groups supported by Basayev, producing a split in the Chechen separatist movement between Islamic fundamentalism and Chechen nationalists. In February 1999, as a concession to radical Islamists, Maskhadov introduced Islamic Sharia law. The Sharia courts that were established sentenced people to death, flogging, executing people for crimes such as adultery.


Basayev also said to be responsible for 1999 apartment bombings I think?


So that could be his use: spark a war, divide the opposition, allow a takeover by Putin.


Maybe later was when his use evolved to discredit the army, particularly political opponents of Putin.


-------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shamil_Basayev
	Basayev was considered by some to be the undisputed leader of the radical wing of the Chechen insurgency. He was responsible for numerous guerrilla attacks on security forces in and around Chechnya and the 2002 Moscow theater hostage crisis. ABC News described him as "one of the most-wanted terrorists in the world."


Yet the great FSB couldn't catch him for years!

	...When some hardline members of Soviet government attempted to stage a coup d'état in August 1991, Basayev allegedly joined supporters of Russian President Boris Yeltsin on the barricades around the Russian White House in central Moscow, armed with hand grenades


this a provocation op? maybe worth looking into
