https://www.nytimes.com/by/steven-lee-myers?action=click&contentCollection=World&module=Byline&region=Header&pgtype=article


Steven Lee Myers looks to be a Russian propagandist


so what's up with this article?


http://www.nytimes.com/2002/10/10/world/russia-s-view-of-chechnya-clashes-with-reality.html
	Russia's View of Chechnya Clashes With Reality

	By STEVEN LEE MYERS OCT. 10, 2002 

	This is how the commander of Russian forces in Chechnya, Col. Gen. Vladimir I. Moltenskoi, sees life here.

	''I watched with pleasure how 217 schools began their new school year this year,'' he said in his heavily fortified headquarters near here, ''how the university works, institutes work, how people visit markets, move about the republic, even travel beyond the republic.''

	''The situation,'' he added, ''is quite normal.''

	This is how it seems to Zarema Baisukhanova, a 21-year-old Chechen, the oldest of four sisters for whom life without war is but a youthful memory.

	''Our mother doesn't allow us to go to the central market,'' she said in her family's single room in a hostel on Grozny's outskirts, shared by the sisters, their parents, the husband of one sister and their baby. ''Anything may happen on the road. Something may explode. Russian soldiers may get drunk and shoot around.''

	''Practically speaking,'' she added, ''we stay at home.''

	What is most staggering about Chechnya today is not just the shocking scale of destruction, but the dissonance between the pronouncements of Russian officialdom and the realities of life in a place battered first by one war, and then, for the last three years, by another.



http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2001-07-12/news/0107120176_1_chechen-civilians-assinovskaya-russian
	MOSCOW — The commander of Russian military forces in Chechnya said Wednesday that his troops had committed "widespread crimes" in two days of terror they inflicted on the Chechen civilians of Assinovskaya and Sernovodsk, where 1,500 residents were arrested, subjected to beatings and electric shocks and saw their homes looted after mine blasts had killed Russian soldiers.

	Lt. Gen. Vladimir Moltenskoi, acting commander of Russian forces in the Northern Caucasus, assembled his subordinate officers at Russia's main military base in Khankala and in front of Russian news reporters engaged in rare self-criticism of the army's performance.


Moltenskoi doesn't always paint a rosy picture like Myers suggests


	...The general's public confession was prompted by strong protests from Chechen and Russian officials who are trying to re-establish order in the republic where rebels continue to ravage Russian army convoys with mine attacks while federal troops enforce repressive martial law conditions that engender deep resentment.


pressured to do this?


	The sudden outpouring of frustration and protest over the conduct of Russian military forces in Chechnya, triggered by this most recent assault, reflects the larger frustration that has been building for months. Moscow has been unable to consolidate a military victory that President Vladimir Putin has sought over the Chechen rebels since 1999, when as prime minister he initiated the military campaign.

	...On Wednesday, the Kremlin scrambled to recover from the image that the Russian military was waging a war against Chechen civilians. At the Khankala news conference, Moltenskoi indicated he would travel to the two villages terrorized by his soldiers to meet with aggrieved residents.


but they created that image...


	And in Moscow, Sergei Yastrzhembsky, an aide to Putin, said on Russian television that, "apparently, the very practice of mopping up operations should be changed, and perhaps it should become a feature of the past."


sounds like Russian public aware of what was going on in Chechnya?


	He said "pinpoint" operations, like the one that recently killed Arbi Barayev, notorious for his involvement in the kidnapping and hostage trade that has flourished in Chechnya, "are much more efficient."


interesting, sounds like trying to plug for FSB control of the war

also assert FSB killed Barayev


also on July 12:


http://articles.latimes.com/2001/jul/12/news/mn-21309
	MOSCOW — Russia's top commander in Chechnya denied Wednesday that his troops committed large-scale abuses during recent military operations, saying violations may have occurred but that they were on the "rank-and-file" level.

	Lt. Gen. Vladimir Moltenskoi insisted that large roundups of Chechen men in three villages last week were carefully planned and correctly executed. An administrative review is underway, he said, to find out if individual soldiers failed to follow orders.

	"I cannot talk about 'crimes,' " Moltenskoi said on state television. "What I can talk about are violations committed at the level of a rank-and-file soldier or policeman. Everything was planned right and carried out correctly, but some [individual] violations were committed."

	Earlier in the day, the Itar-Tass news agency quoted Moltenskoi as telling senior officers during a meeting that "those who conducted the mopping-up operation committed outrageous acts." But his later remarks, in response to a question about the Itar-Tass report, made clear that he meant to refer to individual soldiers, not Russian forces as a whole.


what's up with that?


Tass putting words in his mouth?


sounds like what they do here, report quotes out of context


	Although zachistka operations have been frequent throughout the war, roundups in three villages last week sparked an unusual furor. A large number of men were detained in Sernovodsk, Assinovskaya and Kurchaloi and later reported physical abuses that included beatings and electric shock torture. Many said they paid large sums of money for their freedom.

	Pro-Moscow Chechen officials have led the chorus of criticism, saying their delicate intermediary position between the Kremlin and the republic's citizens is increasingly untenable. Several mayors and other officials in the Moscow-backed Chechen administration tendered their resignations.

	President Vladimir V. Putin's representative in southern Russia, Viktor Kazantsev, delivered an apology to the mayors Wednesday and won their agreement to stay on in their jobs, the Itar-Tass news agency reported.


so Tass reporting on abuses in Chechnya, painting Putin as problem solver


public reaction for this particular incident said to be stronger than usual

	Liliya F. Shevtsova, a political analyst with the Carnegie Moscow Center think tank, said it is not clear whether Putin will push for accountability or continue to "waltz around" the issue.

	"Moscow does not have a clear-cut policy toward Chechnya, especially as to how severe the methods used against rebels should be. And there is no clarity on who will assume the final responsibility for these measures," she said.

	"If anyone from the federal troops is truly punished after all this, mid-level commanders in Chechnya will stop displaying any initiative at all," she added. "So, most probably, a little man will be found and made a scapegoat who will take the rap for everyone."


what does this mean? can't tell when they are just putting a spin for the public or trying to send a message


implication here is that military leadership is responsible but Putin doesn't want to hold them accountable

except military leadership not responsible and Putin does want to hold them accountable

------

https://jamestown.org/program/do-ethnic-russians-support-putins-war-in-chechnya-2/
	Among Americans who do not follow political developments in Russia closely – that is, among the overwhelming majority of Americans – there exists an impression that ethnic Russians (who comprise 80 percent of the population of the Russian Federation) strongly support Putin’s war in Chechnya. The reality of the matter, however, as we shall see, is quite different.

	Unlike the average American, ethnic Russians are painfully aware of the costs that they as a people have had to incur over the course of seven years of bloody warfare in Chechnya. The Yeltsin and Putin leaderships have not been forthcoming in revealing the number of Russian troops killed or severely wounded during the conflicts of 1994-1996 and 1999-present. One person, however, who has been in a position to obtain accurate information, is former Russian interior minister and deputy premier Anatoly Kulikov, currently the deputy chair of the State Duma’s Security Committee. In 2002, retired general Kulikov announced that “in the course of the two wars in Chechnya, Russia had lost as many men as in the war in Afghanistan in 1979-1989, that is, about 15,000” (see Lilia Shevtsova, Putin’s Russia [2003], p. 252). Let us reflect on that figure: after five years of fighting in Chechnya, Russia had already suffered as many fatalities as the Soviet Union incurred during ten years of combat in Afghanistan.

	...Generally unnoticed in the West, there has been a rising mood of protest in Russia directed against a bloody and costly war. In late December of 2004, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov announced that, beginning on January 1, 2005, no more Russian conscripts would be sent to Chechnya. Following the first of the year, he declared, only kontraktniki (volunteers) would be sent to the republic. This decision, it must be emphasized, was effectively forced upon Ivanov by Russian public opinion and by nascent Russian civil society, in particular by the Committee of Soldiers’ Mothers, which recently transformed itself into a political party. In early 2005, Ivanov announced that military deferments would not in the future be granted to young Russian men. He was presumably aware that such an announcement could not be made before the sending of conscripts to Chechnya had been ended as a practice.

	While Sergei Ivanov and Vladimir Putin doggedly push on with the war in Chechnya, the Russian public has increasingly been siding with the position of the Soldiers’ Mothers. In a recent nation-wide poll conducted by the prestigious Levada Center in Moscow, 64 percent of Russian respondents stated that they supported the position of the Mothers on fostering negotiations with the Chechen separatists while only 27 percent said that they were opposed. Among women, the support has been even more pronounced: 72 percent of women living in large Russian cities polled by the Levada Center held that “the activity of the Committee of Soldiers’ Mothers serves a beneficial purpose.” Nine percent were neutral toward the Committee’s activities while a mere five percent chose the vituperative response: “The Committee of Soldiers’ Mothers carries out the political command of the West to weaken the defense capacity of Russia.” 


so the war was unpopular


how exactly did Putin "use" the war to "boost his popularity," as oft repeated in Western media?

	...While ethnic Russians evince little affection for Chechens, they are also far from enamored of those of their countrymen who run the Russian war machine in Chechnya. In polls taken in late September 2004 by “Public Opinion” Foundation, whose results were reported by Gazeta.ru on October 1, 41 percent of Russian respondents believed that “the special services could but for certain reasons do not want” to find Chechen terrorist leader Shamil Basaev. Only seven percent were convinced that the services both wanted to and could find Basaev. Commenting on such views prevalent among the Russian public, Yuri Levada told Polit.ru last November: “If they [the Russian leaders] halted the war, it is not clear what the state, the army, and the generals would occupy themselves with. This is a very important part of life, around which there swirl both military ranks and careers, and enormous money and oil, and funds gained under the pretext of restoration [of housing and infrastructure in Chechnya].” Much of the Russian populace, as Levada notes, is of the opinion that greed and corruption underpin both the regime’s and the Russian power ministries’ commitment to pressing on with an unpopular war.


Interesting, many suspect Russian intel didn't want to find Basaev


	To sum up, the Russian public does not in the main support Vladimir Putin’s war in Chechnya. Rather they, like the Soldiers’ Mothers, favor a negotiated settlement to the conflict that would spare Russian soldiers further suffering and would also help to bring about the introduction of a much-needed military reform leading to the creation of a Russian professional army.


hmmm


so it's like FSB does Chechen war, war unpopular, blame Army, Putin comes in and "reforms" army with a purge, "negotiates" a peaceful end to the war?

so could use the war for coup in the army, create a problem for Putin to solve and make himself look better

------

http://discovery.ucl.ac.uk/1445136/1/U592450.pdf


giant thesis on Russian public opinion of Chechen wars, including section on media manipulation


pg 191

	While the government and military's efforts have indeed been slightly more efficient in conducting the conflict, Putin wanted also to limit the risks in regard to even the possibility of stirring opposition in Russian public opinion.


doesn't sound right	


	Freedom House has documented this trend against media freedom, as Steven Fish charts in his book, Democracy Derailed in Russia.


sounds sketchy


author claims Russia has an independent media

seems unlikely, as not even U.S. has an independent media


------

novoya gazeta head guy is very down on Chechen wars

wrote this article in english, or translated?

article was translated, first appeared on novoya gazeta


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/dec/12/-sp-chechnya-russia-war-anniversary


says FSB supported war effort


	Pavel Grachev, the Russian minister of defence, then promised to take Grozny with just two divisions of airborne troops: his new year’s attack failed and whole brigades were destroyed, giving way to bloody bombardments, a trade in hostages, terrorist attacks across Russia and a second Chechen war. To this day, no one knows how many people died.


says this guy looks dumb, or was naive


this is first Chechan war

first war helped bring down Yeltsin, make him less popular?


------


http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/russians-losing-the-propaganda-war-in-chechnya-5372316.html
	By Patrick Cockburn in Moscow 

	The conflict in Chechnya is confirming the saying that the first casualty of war is truth. During the fighting last month in the capital Grozny, a Russian armoured reconnaissance unit sent to locate Chechen firing positions was ambushed and suffered heavy losses as it entered Minutka square in the heart of the city.

	Foreign news agencies in Grozny reported that 115 Russian soldiers were lying dead amid the wreckage of their armoured vehicles. Russian defence officials denied that any battle had occurred at all.

	"In fact the agencies got it a little wrong," said Captain Jury Gladkevich of the independent Military News Agency in Moscow. "Our losses were 52 dead and wounded. It wasn't an attempt to storm Grozny. The Russian commander wanted to draw Chechen fire to find out where they were, but he underestimated their defences."

	The incident explains why Russia is doing so badly in the information war in Chechnya. No setback is ever admitted, however strong the evidence to the contrary. A Russian general speaks of 7,000 Chechen fighters killed - yet even a pro-Moscow Chechen politician says the real figure is 200. Official spokesmen lose credibility by the month.


"first casualty of war is the truth"

author implies "foreign" media can be trusted


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patrick_Cockburn
	He has written three books on Iraq's recent history. He won the Martha Gellhorn Prize in 2005, the James Cameron Prize in 2006, the Orwell Prize for Journalism in 2009,[2] Foreign Commentator of the Year (Editorial Intelligence Comment Awards 2013), Foreign Affairs Journalist of the Year (British Journalism Awards 2014), Foreign Reporter of the Year (The Press Awards For 2014). Seymour Hersh has described him as the "best western journalist at work in Iraq today."


suspicious

claimed to be an eyewitness of a massacre of Christians by ISIS he didn't see?

hit-peice in the daily beast:

http://www.thedailybeast.com/whos-lying-about-syrias-christian-massacre
	Patrick Cockburn, the Irish foreign correspondent for The Independent, has an eclectic following. He is admired by Noam Chomsky and Rand Paul; and last December, when he won the British equivalent of a Pulitzer for his coverage of Syria and Iraq, the judges declared his journalism in a “league of its own” and wondered “whether the Government should [consider] pensioning off the whole of MI6 and [hire] Patrick Cockburn instead.”


fishy

don't trust either of them


http://www.independent.co.uk/voices/comment/the-evidence-of-chemical-attack-seems-compelling-but-remember-there-s-a-propaganda-war-on-8778918.html
	The evidence of chemical attack seems compelling – but remember - there’s a propaganda war on

	The evidence so far for the use of chemical weapons by the Syrian army is second-hand and comes from a biased source

	Patrick Cockburn 

	Pictures showing that the Syrian army used chemical weapons against rebel-held Eastern Ghouta just east of Damascus are graphic and moving. But they are likely to be viewed sceptically because the claims so much resemble those made about Saddam Hussein’s possession of weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) before the US and British invasion of Iraq in 2003. 


so FSB (or SVR or w/e) blatantly attacking their own military


likely impossible to hide this from a lot of them, maybe most of them stationed here

says a lot about their character


http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/russians-losing-the-propaganda-war-in-chechnya-5372316.html
	A Russian general speaks of 7,000 Chechen fighters killed - yet even a pro-Moscow Chechen politician says the real figure is 200. Official spokesmen lose credibility by the month.


so this is what they wanted? "lose credibility by the month"

	After four months in which the Russian high command trumpeted a trouble-free advance through Chechnya, the ability of guerrillas to strike at the towns of Gudermes, Shali and Argun shocked the Russian media and public. "Suddenly it turned out that no defence was organised against potential strikes," wrote the daily newspaper Izvestia last week. "The troops were scattered all over the territory and mobile armoured units had no unified command."


"guerilla" strikes make them unpopular?


	Gen Kosarev and his journalists do not oppose Russia's war in Chechnya, but they are keen to see it properly reported. Capt Gladkevich, a specialist on Chechnya, said that, for example, "the number of Russian casualties is three or four times the official figure". The numbers are massaged to keep them low by various means, such as not reporting numbers of missing soldiers, most of whom are dead.

	Capt Gladkevich admits that he does not have an exact figure for Russian losses, despite repeated efforts to find out. It is, he said, a closely guarded secret. "When a senior medical office at the Ministry of Defence asked about our casualties, he was immediately cross-questioned about why he needed to know."


sounds like inflating casualty numbers?


	Few of AVN's reports have gone down well with the official spokesmen for the army or the Defence Ministry. With some glee, Gen Kosarev records how one such spokesman accused AVN of helping the Chechen rebels by revealing in advance that two senior Russian generals in operational command in Chechnya - Vladimir Shamanov and Gennady Troshev - were to be moved from their posts. Gen Kosarev promptly got up at a press conference and attacked the spokesman "for misleading the Russian public".


Kosarev sounds like a shill, revealing military internal affairs, calls them liars


	...The agency may also benefit from a growing willingness by the Russian media to admit that so far the official account of the war in Chechnya has been grossly misleading. The army announced the capture of villages and towns as soon as local Chechen leaders agreed to run up the Russian flag, but never really controlled them.


Russians distrust "mainstream media?"


http://www.newsweek.com/majority-russians-do-not-trust-national-media-510682
	The poll, carried out last week, found that while 42 percent of Russians watched for news surrounding the economy in 2015, only 30 percent did so this year.

	These figures follow another damning review of the media in Russia, after independent pollster Levada Center reported last week that only 27 percent of Russians trusted the media, ranking it less trustworthy than President Vladimir Putin, the army, the police and the church.

	However, the media still ranked higher in trustworthiness that the Russian government, which was trusted by only 26 percent, as well as the house of parliament and local government, neither of which won the trust of more than 25 percent of respondents.


is this right? support for Putin said to be high, but don't trust government

sort of like America I guess

a way to give him a cult of personality--don't trust media, government, army, but trust Putin


------



http://www.irishtimes.com/news/chechen-war-veteran-flexes-political-muscles-sending-shiver-down-the-spine-of-the-kremlin-1.345278


Russian propagandists Chris Stephen acts like a mouthpiece for Putin here, possibly warning Russian military against a coup. Laments that FSB not in control of war in Chechnya, Russian army.


Attacks Troshev specifically


------


http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/russia/1308872/Email-from-Russia.html
	So were the comments really a brief act of madness, an unfortunate indiscretion in the heat of the moment? No, they weren't. Challenged over his remarks later - and after the Kremlin attempt at damage control - GenTroshev set the record straight.

	He was speaking in a private capacity, naturally. But public executions would indeed work as a deterrent and, anyway, no one ever knows for sure whether sentences are actually carried out. "I am not calling for everybody to be executed," he clarified.


so didn't really "call" for public executions (publicly, anyway)


	...The blind spot is all the more terrifying because, although born in post-war Berlin, the young Gennady was brought up in Grozny and, as we learn from the book, his sister, granny, aunt and uncle were buried there.


Interesting

did he really want Grozny never rebuilt?


what wikipedia tries to cite I think:

http://www.irishtimes.com/news/chechen-war-veteran-flexes-political-muscles-sending-shiver-down-the-spine-of-the-kremlin-1.345278
	RUSSIA: Another Russian general has emerged who wants to be a politician - a man who left his mark on Chechnya by helping raze its capital city. Chris Stephen reports from Moscow


this the author?

https://muckrack.com/chris-stephen


------


Chris Stephen seems like Russian spy

http://www.irishtimes.com/news/chechen-war-veteran-flexes-political-muscles-sending-shiver-down-the-spine-of-the-kremlin-1.345278
	RUSSIA: Another Russian general has emerged who wants to be a politician - a man who left his mark on Chechnya by helping raze its capital city. Chris Stephen reports from Moscow

	Russia has a new pretender to the crown of warrior-king in the shape of Gen Gennady Troshev, its former commander in Chechnya. The bull-necked 57-year-old hit the headlines last month when he refused an order from the defence ministry to step down and move to another post in Siberia.


Putin unhappy, wants to exile Troshev to Siberia?

author makes it sound like Troshev was defiant

	Angry that the ministry was blaming him for the manifest failures of the Chechen war, he went on television to denounce his sacking order. His dismissal as commander of the forces in Chechnya was later confirmed by special decree from President Vladimir Putin - though the requirement to move to Siberia was quietly dropped.

	Instead, Troshev has moved to Moscow, declaring he is "considering" a political career.

or decides not to exile to Siberia after all

"blamed for failures"-- could Troshev have stolen the thunder of Putin?

Putin tried to use Chechan war to boost popularity, allegedly

	This has made many people shudder, as it comes with reports that the army is already beyond the power of its civilian masters to control.


Army beyond FSB control

	...He is not the first general to try this path. In 1994 the deputy chief- of-staff, Eduard Vorobyov, refused to take up command of Russian forces in the first Chechen war, instead becoming an MP. Alexander Lebed, a former paratrooper general, stood against Putin in the 2000 presidential elections.

	Neither made an impact: Vorobyov failed to attract a large following and the charismatic Lebed's political career died when he was killed in a helicopter crash last year.


trying to point out futility in opposing Putin?

	Troshev aims to go better: already, he has powerful allies in the high command, notably army chief- of-staff Anatoly Kvashnin. Their complaints are familiar: first, that the army has been starved of support, both political and financial, to smash rebels in Chechnya and second, that under corrupt and incompetent civilian leadership, Russia has lost her great power status - and needs to claw it back.


"civilian leadership"

Anatoly Kvashnin opposes Putin too?

	...An official on Putin's Human Rights Commission, Svetlana Gamushkina, told The Irish Times that the President admitted he could not control the generals in a meeting last month. "He said that the army has become a separate political force. This is dangerous."


worried about a coup?


	Further evidence that the army is its own boss came earlier this month, when military judges derailed the country's most important war crimes case - the trial of a colonel accused of strangling a Chechen teenage girl.

	Yuri Budanov had already admitted, during a two-year trial, that he abducted the 18-year-old girl, savagely beating her, then strangling her and ordering subordinates to bury her naked body.

	The Kremlin had hoped Budanov's trial would demonstrate it was serious about introducing the rule of law into Chechnya. Instead, the army has derailed such hopes.


something going on here, a political hit-job against army?


	A prosecution appeal is taking place this week, but the military judgment is likely to be confirmed, in a body blow to efforts to "normalise" Chechnya. "The army is separate from anyone else," Gamushkina says. "It is a danger to society."


A Putin surrogate actually said that?


http://www.ponarseurasia.org/memo/strong-public-support-military-reform-russia
	The Russian public strongly supports reform of the Russian military. In focus groups in summer 2002 and in a large-scale survey in January 2003, we found deep and widespread interest and anxiety associated with conditions in the military. Specifically, our January 2003 survey results show that barely half the Russian population of age 16 and over has confidence in the army. Three-fifths advocate a professional military instead of the current conscript-based force. Concern about brutal hazing of young recruits is nearly universal and sympathy for draft dodgers is surprisingly high. Over two-thirds advocate increased spending on the military, while 38 percent want a smaller military. In addition, two-thirds of likely voters view military reform as an important issue in choosing which party to vote for. Support for change in the military is especially strong among women from 30- to 49-years old and better-educated Russians. Support for the status quo is stronger among the oldest cohorts and those with the least education. [...]


public support for them low around this time, want "reforms"

"anti-corruption" purges, maybe?


https://worldview.stratfor.com/article/moscow-tackles-military-corruption
	Moscow Tackles Military Corruption

	Aug 9, 2000 | 05:00 GMT



http://www.irishtimes.com/news/chechen-war-veteran-flexes-political-muscles-sending-shiver-down-the-spine-of-the-kremlin-1.345278
	Putin has fought against this, installing former KGB colonel Sergei Ivanov as defence minister and giving him the job of implementing wide-ranging reforms. They have failed to bite, though, and a second initiative, to put the FSB - the renamed KGB - in charge of the Chechen war has come to nothing.


so kindof open about it, military "reforms" while trying to put FSB in charge of Chechen war

	...Born in the ethnic Russian community in the Chechen capital, Grozny, he became famous for declaring, early in the present war, that the shattered city should never be rebuilt so as to serve as a warning against treason to Russia's ethnic minorities. Later he demanded that captured guerrillas be publicly executed.


this what wikipedia citing sounds like. Second claim misleading at best, said privately. First true? he was raised there.

	What has infuriated the Kremlin, however, have been his constant announcements over more than three years that the war is "almost over". These statements are invariably followed by new Chechen offensives, most recently on December 27th, when two suicide bombers detonated huge truck-bombs outside the province's administrative headquarters in Grozny, killing 46.

	Talk of a coup, however, is far-fetched. For one thing, the army is in a mess. Hardly a week passes without a story of more desertions, incompetence and bungling within the country's under-funded, bloated armed forces.


wtf is going on here

Stephens makes it sound like coup would stop the war?


	Human rights groups say units raise cash in Chechnya by kidnapping civilians, then "selling" them back to anxious relatives. Last September, an entire 54-man unit deserted its post in Volgograd,claiming living conditions were worse than prison.

	This loss of prestige has angered the officer corps who, like Troshev, were brought up to expect Soviet-era greatness. Troshev is unlikely to demand a place in the Kremlin, but he will demand that military spending will rise.


did the war itself harm reputation of Russian army?

war officially ends May 2000, around the same time as call for "reforms" and Russian army popularity low, the "insurgency phase" from 2000 - 2009


	...The other target will be central Asia. The army is furious that Moscow has allowed America to build a chain of bases in these former Soviet republics, long regarded as Russia's back yard.


interesting--Afghanistan war a way to drive wedge between Russian and U.S. army?


------


this guy said to be "powerful ally" of Troshev

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anatoly_Kvashnin
	was the Chief of the Russian General Staff from 1997 to 2004, when he was dismissed by President Vladimir Putin.

	...As Chief of the Russian General Staff he had some success in reforming the command structure for the strategic deterrent forces, but feuded with Defence Minister Sergei Ivanov and many of his subordinates. 


http://www.nbcnews.com/id/5462939/ns/world_news/
	MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday fired the nation’s top soldier, who was blamed by the defense minister for resisting reform, in a security shake-up that included the dismissals of top officials of the Interior Ministry and the KGB successor agency. 


"resisting reform"

also "reforms" for the Interior Ministry and FSB


	The dismissal of Gen. Anatoly Kvashnin, the armed forces’ chief of general staff, was expected after last month’s brazen attack by militants on police and government facilities in Ingushetia, a region that borders Chechnya.

	Ninety people were killed in the coordinated assaults, which highlighted Russian forces’ weaknesses in and around Chechnya and undermined Kremlin claims that the situation there was stabilizing after nearly a decade of war and chaos.


interesting--using Cechan war as a way to purge military?


	Putin also dismissed the head of Interior Ministry forces, Gen. Vyacheslav Tikhomirov; the deputy director of the Federal Security Service, or FSB, Anatoly Yezhkov; and commander of the North Caucasus military district, which includes Chechnya and Ingushetia, Mikhail Labunets.

	The military, Interior Ministry and FSB all are involved in Russia’s campaign against separatist rebels in Chechnya. Yezhkov was the top FSB official for the North Caucasus.


article makes it sound that way


	But analysts said the June 21 assault on Ingushetia likely was being used as a pretext to dismiss Kvashnin, who was unpopular in military circles and had clashed with Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov, a close Putin ally, over military reform. Kvashnin’s position was equivalent to chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the United States.


which "military circles?"

	...Alexander Golts, a military observer for the weekly magazine Yezhenedelny Zhurnal, said Kvashnin’s dismissal stemmed from a new law changing the functions of the military’s general staff from operational to mostly analytical. Kvashnin was not ready for that change, Golts said.

	The other dismissals were aimed at “finding scapegoats” to blame for unsuccessful policies in Chechnya, Golts said.


maybe Golts has it backwards


	...Although Baluyevsky was a strong critic of the U.S.-led war on Iraq and of U.S. plans to build a missile defense shield, he is seen as well-inclined toward the West.

	In April, after NATO expanded its membership to include several ex-Soviet republics, Baluyevsky struck a conciliatory stance, saying Moscow would closely watch the alliance’s activities in the new Baltic member states, but it wanted to avoid taking military countermeasures.

	“Baluyevsky is known for his interest toward the West ... Western diplomats and military men are likely to praise his appointment,” Felgenhauer said.

	Kvashnin had rough relations with the West. In his book, “The Russia Hand,” former U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott called Kvashnin the “driving force” behind Russian forces’ June 1999 takeover of a Kosovo airport after NATO’s bombing campaign against Yugoslavia. That takeover dismayed alliance commanders.


this seems backwards? Kvashnin sounds like probably a good guy, doubtful about Baluyevsky if Putin wanted him in


-----


https://sputniknews.com/analysis/2004072039765480/
	Vladimir Putin conducted large-scale reshuffles in the country's military and law enforcement structures yesterday. He dismissed Anatoly Kvashnin, chief of the General Staff, Vyacheslav Tikhomirov, chief commander of the interior troops, Mikhail Labunets, commander of the North Caucasus district of the interior troops, and Anatoly Yezhkov, deputy director of the FSB. Yuri Baluyevsky, former first deputy of Gen. Kvashnin, has been appointed in place of his ex-boss, and Alexander Baranov has been transferred to the post of commander of the North-Caucasus military district from the Volga-Urals district.

	According to the newspaper, the majority of reshuffles are linked, in one way or another, to the failed federal policy in the North Caucasus, i.e., the assassination of Akhmad Kadyrov and the militants' attack on Ingushetia on June 22. According to the newspaper, "the FSB, Interior Ministry troops and Defence Ministry units had obviously lost their grip on the situation in the North Caucasus." The president's decision raised the level of responsibility of the new people appointed to important posts in the military and law enforcement structures. According to many experts, Kvashnin was "a political heavyweight" from the Yeltsin era, and therefore his dismissal was not surprising.



So they point to the assassination of Akhmad Kadyrov, and the Jun 22 attack at Ingushetia


purged Kvashnin, an ally of Troshev



http://www.nbcnews.com/id/5462939/ns/world_news/
	The dismissal of Gen. Anatoly Kvashnin, the armed forces’ chief of general staff, was expected after last month’s brazen attack by militants on police and government facilities in Ingushetia, a region that borders Chechnya.

	Ninety people were killed in the coordinated assaults, which highlighted Russian forces’ weaknesses in and around Chechnya and undermined Kremlin claims that the situation there was stabilizing after nearly a decade of war and chaos.


------


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2004/jun/23/chechnya.carolynnewheeler
	Chechen rebels launched their deadliest assault in years in a startling attack on the neighbouring region of Ingushetia early yesterday, killing as many as 57 people, including the acting interior minister and regional officials, and destroying government buildings.

	Thousands of Russian troops were searching last night for at least 100 fighters who attacked eight targets including the interior ministry in Nazran and police stations and border posts in Nazran, Karabulak and Sleptsovskaya.

	It was the deadliest attack in Ingushetia in a decade of Chechen conflict, and prompted Vladimir Putin, Russia's president, to undertake a lightning visit to the region and order extra troops to the republic.

	"Judging by what is going on here, the federal centre is not doing enough to defend the republic," Mr Putin said last night. 


Attack kills acting interior minister (of?), regional officials, police, civilians, Putin rushes to blame "federal centre" (government of Chechnya, apparently)

funny, reminds me of Benghazi, conspiriacies around it (did Putin want these people offed?)


so this is Russia's Benghazi

	Witnesses said the rebels had sought government targets, setting up checkpoints throughout the region and shooting dead the acting interior minister, Abukar Kostoyev, as he left his home. A local UN employee, Magomed Getagazov, was also killed, caught in the crossfire as he came home from work. 


these people killed for a reason?

	...The attack is likely to be seen as an embarrassment for the Kremlin, which has maintained that the military phase of the conflict is over and that the region is returning to normal. The attack came on Russia's Day of Remembering and Sorrow, the anniversary of Hitler's invasion in 1941. 


like it was meant to be a provocation


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2004_Nazran_raid
	The Nazran raid was a large-scale raid carried out in the Republic of Ingushetia, Russia, on the night of June 21–22, 2004, by a large number of mostly Chechen and Ingush militants led by the Chechen commander Shamil Basayev. Basayev's main goal, besides capturing a large cache of weapons, was a show of strength


Raid led by Basayev

Maskhadov claimed responsibility for attack, but https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aslan_Maskhadov says he opposes Basayev

or I guess work together but disagree?

Basayev said to support increasing radical islam, Maskhadov opposed

	Maskhadov was one of the main commanders in the Battle of Grozny (1999–2000) along with Shamil Basayev, Ruslan Gelayev, Ibn Al-Khattab, Aslambek Ismailov and Khunkarpasha Israpilov.

	...Although he initially denied responsibility for the 2004 Nazran raid, in which 98 police officers/troops were killed, in July 2004 Maskhadov publicly accepted responsibility for the attacks. In the same month, Maskahdov promised similar attacks would happen, and vowed that the winner of Chechnya's upcoming presidential election would be illegitimate and would be attacked if necessary.


interesting, initially denied responsibility, then accepted responsibility and promised more.

	On 15 January 2005, Maskhadov issued a special order to stop all military operations except those in self-defense, both inside and outside Chechnya, until the end of February (the date marking the anniversary of the Stalin's Vainakh deportations of 1944) as a gesture of good will, and again called for a negotiated end to the Chechen conflict. Umar Khambiev, his designated negotiator, said that the separatists were no longer seeking independence, but only "guarantees for the existence of the Chechen nation".[17] This surprise, unilateral ceasefire was supported by Basayev but flatly rejected by the Russian and pro-Russian leaders who, once again, refused to negotiate


maybe Maskhadov not Russian intel? making the Russian leadership look bad

FSB said to have killed him


------


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2004/jun/23/chechnya.carolynnewheeler
	...No group has claimed responsibility, but a Russian television crew spoke with rebels at a border crossing who called themselves the Martyrs' Brigade and who said: "We have shot everyone here".

	Ahmed Zakayev, a top aide to the Chechen rebel leader Aslan Maskhadov, said his faction was not behind the attack, but added: "I am certain that there were units of Chechen volunteers who took part."

	He said the Ingush could also have been involved, pointing to their disaffection with the "destruction" wrought by Russian forces in Ingushetia. He said the Kremlin's resort to force to solve problems in the north Caucasus risked a wider conflagration.

	Alu Alkhanov, the Kremlin-supported candidate for Chechnya's presidency, accused Mr Maskhadov and the rebel commander Shamil Basayev of masterminding the attack. 


no-one claimed responsibility at first, Maskhadov denies. But said to have publicly warned of an attack the day before--maybe the attack not what he expected?


Kremlin-supported guy blames Maskhadov and Basayev


who are "Martyrs' Brigade"?

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Riyad-us_Saliheen_Brigade_of_Martyrs

small terrorist group founded, led by Basayev, allied with Mujahideen


I guess Russian propagandists wanted people to think it was by Martyrs brigade? whether true or not

seems true


https://www.rferl.org/a/Five_Years_After_Nazran_Ingushetia_Still_Plagued_By_Militant_Violence/1758428.html

website posted a video showing Basayev taking weapons during the raid


a bit iffy--if the other video was faked, this one too? dunno if they have a lookalike or what

	Critics say Moscow inadvertently encouraged young men in Ingushetia and other North Caucasus regions to join the insurgency by closing its eyes to the brutal methods employed by federal forces in the region.

	In the poor, chiefly Muslim republic of Ingushetia, heavy-handed police tactics, combined with official corruption, rampant poverty, and a 75 percent unemployment rate provided Chechen militants with wide public support and a ready pool of recruits.

	RFE/RL's Sultanov says he saw many residents come out of their homes during the Nazran raid to cheer the militants.


and article sounds like Russian intel propaganda


https://www.rferl.org/a/1835269.html


one reason they'd want to always point to Basayev: to whip up anger against radical Islamic terrorism


------


maybe a problem with Nazran raid: why didn't the Russian army respond sooner? raid went on for two days

maybe a similar situation to Benghazi


------


some indications Russian intel intended to support Chechen terrorists broadly--Russian propagandists like Cockburn pointed to the guerrilla warfare against army there, "failures" in mistreatment of civilian opposition and suffering terrorist attacks. A sense that they intended for war to be unpopular as part of a plan to discredit Russian military leadership, and controlling the opposition an important part of that plan.


Basayev also an agent of theirs, even Russian public doubted that Russian gov wanted to go after Basayev (sign of a power struggle?).  Former "Jihadists" like Kadyrovs also work with FSB, and Razman Kadyrov ends up installed as puppet for Putin.

Motive for assassinating elder Kadyrov, and some indications of FSB involvement (Basayev video), although the video may be a fake to discredit such allegations.

One motive would be to install Razman Kadyrov. Another is that the incident was used to purge certain members of Russian military and FSB leadership, others.

Clear signs of Russian propagandists attacking General Troshev (e.g. Chris Stephen), who was said to be planning to oppose Putin politically. Russian propagandists appear to try to discredit Troshev by tying him to military "failures," real or imagined. Troshev ally Kvashnin purged after elder Kadyrov assassination (https://sputniknews.com/analysis/2004072039765480/), then Troshev later dies in an airline accident.


------

https://books.google.com/books/about/Blowing_up_Russia.html?id=EsGNAAAAMAAJ

pg 13

	In any case, by 1994, the political leadership of Russia was already aware that it could not afford to grant Chechnya independence like Belarus and Ukraine. To grant Chechnya sovereign status could pose a genuine threat of the disintegration of Russia. But could they afford to start a civil war in the northern Caucasus? The “party of war,” based on the military and law enforcement ministries, believed that they could afford it, if only the public could be prepared for it, and it should be easy enough to influence public opinion, if the Chechens were seen to resort to terrorist tactics in their struggle for independence. All that was needed was to arrange terrorist attacks in Moscow and leave a trail leading back to Chechnya.


saying blaming terrorist attacks on Chechnya would drive public support for a war (talking about first Chechan war?).


	Knowing that Russian troops and the forces of the anti-Dudaev opposition might begin their storm of Grozny at any day, on November 18, 1994, the FSK made its first recorded attempt to stir up anti-Chechen feeling by committing an act of terrorism and laying the blame on Chechen separatists: if the chauvinist sentiments of Muscovites could be inflamed, it would be easy to continue the repression of the independence movement in Chechnya.

	It should be noted that on November 18 and in later instances, the supposed “Chechen terrorists” set off their explosions at the most inopportune times, and then never actually claimed responsibility (rendering the terrorist attack itself meaningless). In any case, in November 1994, public opinion in Russia and around the world was on the side of the Chechen people, so why would the Chechens have committed an act of terrorism in Moscow? It would have made far more sense to attempt to sabotage the stationing of Russian troops on Chechen territory. Russian supporters of war with Chechnya were, however, only too willing to see the hand of Chechnya in any terrorist attack, and their response on every occasion was to strike a rapid and quite disproportionately massive blow against Chechen sovereignty. The impression was naturally created that the Russian military and law enforcement agencies, while quite unprepared for the terrorist attacks, were incredibly well-prepared to launch counter-measures.

	The explosion of November 18, 1994, took place on a railroad track crossing the river Yauza in Moscow. According to experts, it was caused by two powerful charges of about 1.5 kilograms of TNT. About twenty meters of the railroad bed were ripped up, and the bridge almost collapsed. It was quite clear, however, that the explosion had occurred prematurely, before the next train was due to cross the bridge. The shattered fragments of the bomber’s body were discovered at a distance of about a hundred meters from the site of the explosion. He was Captain Andrei Shchelenkov, an employee of the oil company Lanako, and he had been blown up by his own bomb as he was planting it on the bridge.

	It was only thanks to this blunder by the operative carrying out the bombing that the immediate organizers of the terrorist attack became known. The boss of Lanako, who had given his firm a name beginning with the first two letters of his own last name, was thirty-five-year-old Maxim Lazovsky, a highly valued agent of the Moscow and Moscow Region Department of the FSB, who was known in criminal circles by the nicknames of “Max” and “Cripple.” At the risk of anticipating events, we can also point out the significant fact that every single one of Lanako’s employees was a full-time or free-lance agent of the Russian counterespionage agencies.

	On the day of the explosion on the river Yauza, November 18, 1994, an anonymous phone call to the police claimed that a truck full of explosives was standing outside the Lanako offices. As a result, the FSB department actually did discover a ZIL-131 truck close to the firm’s offices containing three MON-50 mines, fifty charges for grenade launchers, fourteen RGD-5 grenades, ten F-1 grenades, and four packs of plastic explosive, with a total weight of six kilograms. The FSB claimed, however, that it had been unable to determine who owned the truck, even though a Lanako identity card was found on Shchelenkov’s remains, and the explosive used in the Yauza bombing was of the same kind as that on the truck.


reminds me of the Muckden incident

------

pg 14

	War in Chechnya offered a very easy way to finish off Yeltsin politically, a fact understood only too well by those who provoked the war and organized terrorist attacks in Russia.


wanted to "finish Yeltsin off politically"--sounds right


------

pg 17

	The impression given by all this was that the armored column had been deliberately introduced into Grozny on November 26, so that it would be destroyed. The column was not capable of disarming Dudaev and his army, or of taking the city and holding it. Dudaev’s army was at full strength and well-armed. The column could not possibly have been anything more than a moving target.


lost the battle on purpose? made Yeltsin look bad, I guess made the military look bad too? set up an upopular war

later iirc Putin comes in and "reforms" and "fixes" this situation.


	Russian Minister of Defense Grachyov hinted that he had not been involved in the irresponsible attempt to take Grozny. From a military point of view, Grachyov declared at a press conference on November 28, 1996, it would be entirely possible to take Grozny “in two hours with a single regiment of paratroopers. However, all military conflicts are ultimately settled at the negotiating table by political methods. Introducing tanks into the city without infantry cover was really quite pointless.” But why then were they sent in?

	General Gennady Troshev would later tell us about Grachyov’s doubts concerning the Chechen campaign: “He tried to do something about it. He tried to extract a clear assessment of the situation from Stepashin and his special service, he tried to delay the initial introduction of troops until the spring, he even tried to reach a personal agreement with Dudaev. We know now that such a meeting did take place. They didn’t come to any agreement.” General Troshev, who at this stage was in control of the second war in Chechnya, could not understand how Grachyov had failed to reach an understanding with Dudaev. The reason, of course, was that Dudaev insisted on a personal meeting with Yeltsin, and Korzhakov refused to set up the meeting unless he was paid.


Troshev confused about why sent in the troops and not reach an agreement with Dudaev.


	The brilliant military operation in which a Russian armored column was burnt out was, indeed, not organized by Grachyov, but by director of the FSK Stepashin and head of the Moscow UFSB Savostyanov, who was responsible for handling questions relating to the overthrow of Dudaev’s regime and the introduction of troops into Chechnya. Those who expatiated at great length on the crude miscalculations of the Russian military leaders, who had sent the armored column into the city only for it to be destroyed, failed to understand the subtle political calculations of the provocateurs who organized the war in Chechnya. The people who planned the introduction of troops into Grozny wanted the column to be wiped out in spectacular fashion by the Chechens. It was the only way they could provoke Yeltsin into launching a full-scale war against Dudaev.


right, saying it was a KGB provocation to get Yeltsin into Chechen war

also saying military leaders got the blame? but the FSK were in charger of the operation

------


pg 20

	Soskovets emphasized that members of the Chechen diaspora, living in Moscow and other Russian cities, should not be considered potential terrorists. Note this phrase. So far, nobody had even dreamed of regarding the members of the Chechen diaspora as potential terrorists, and there had not actually been any terrorist attacks. The war with Chechnya was still not even regarded as a war, but something more in the nature of a police operation, and there had not yet been any serious casualties. Yet, for some reason the First Deputy Prime Minister seemed to think it possible that the Chechens might organize acts of terrorism on Russian soil. Soskovets’ remark that no discriminatory measures would be applied to the general mass of Chechen citizens, and that the federal authorities were not even considering the enforced deportation of Chechens, was clearly a suggestion from the “party of war” that war should be waged against the entire Chechen people throughout the whole of Russia, including by both discriminatory measures and enforced deportation.


whipping up fears of Chechen terrorism
