Hafez Al-Assad

KGB claims able to influence his brother Rifat

strongest alliance with Syria under Asad


https://archive.org/stream/TheWorldWasGoingOurWayTheKGBAndTheBattleForTheTheThirdWorld/The%20World%20Was%20Going%20Our%20Way_djvu.txt
	 While refusing to deal 
directly with either Carlos or Abu Nidal, however, 
Andropov was content for other Soviet bloc intelligence 
agencies to do so. With Andropov’s knowledge (and 
doubtless his blessing). East Germany became what its 
last interior minister, Peter-Michael Diestel, later called 
‘an Eldorado for terrorists’.— By the mid-1980s, however, 
both Carlos and Abu Nidal had become such an 
embarrassment to their Soviet bloc hosts that their east 
European bases were closed down. Both continued to 
receive assistance from the Soviet Union’s main Middle 
Eastern ally, Hafiz al-Asad. Carlos later claimed, in a 
characteristic transport of semi-reliable rhetoric, to be ‘a 
senior officer of the Syrian secret service’.


Azad supported KGB agent terrorists. They went from East Germany to under Asad.

	...The Ba‘th regime in Syria, dominated by Hafiz al-Asad 
from 1970 until his death thirty years later, emerged 
during the 1970s as the Soviet Union’s only reliable ally 
among the major states of the Middle East. ...Despite the 
continuing ban on the Syrian Communist Party, the Soviet 
Union agreed to supply Syria with both arms and military 
advisers.


Asad "only reliable ally" of Soviets, supplied with arms and military advisers.

	The KGB had from the outset significant penetrations 
of the new regime’s foreign service and intelligence 
community. The diplomat and lawyer Tarazi Salah al-Din 
(codenamed IZZAT) had been recruited by the KGB in 
1954 and went on to become one of its longest- serving 
Soviet agents. By the early 1970s he was Director- 
General of the Foreign Ministry.- A further senior official 
in the Foreign Ministry, codenamed KARYAN, was 
recruited in 1967. Files noted by Mitrokhin also identify 
one major penetration of Syrian intelligence: KERIM, 
who had been recruited by the KGB in East Berlin in the 
early 1960s. The Damascus residency claimed the credit 
for helping him obtain a job in the main Syrian civilian 
intelligence agency, the Bureau of National Security 
(BNS), after his return to Syria. In 1964 KERIM played 
the central role in operation RUCHE Y during which the 
KGB successfully bugged some of the BNS offices.


KGB had "significant penetrations" of Syrian gov, including director of foreign ministry, senior official there, and someone in Syrian intel who bugged their offices.




https://archive.org/stream/TheWorldWasGoingOurWayTheKGBAndTheBattleForTheTheThirdWorld/The%20World%20Was%20Going%20Our%20Way_djvu.txt
	...The humiliation of the Six-Day War in June 1967,— less than four months after the February coup, dealt a shattering blow to the prestige of the Jadid regime. Amid  the recriminations which followed, the Defence Minister 
and future Syrian leader, Hafiz al-Asad, kept his portfolio 
only because he had the support of the brutal and much- 
feared head of the BNS, ‘Abd al-Karim al-Jundi.— A 
serious rift followed between Asad and Jadid. Jadid’s 
main concern remained the internal Ba‘th ‘revolution’. 
For Asad, by contrast, the overwhelming priority was the 
conflict with Israel and the recovery of the Golan Heights, 
lost in the Six-Day War.


Asad in hot water after 6 day war--did he do anything to make them lose? Was saved by BNS head.

Asad disagreed with Jadid and wanted to attack Isreal and take back territory after 6 day war.


agent KERIM burgled West German embassy durin gAsad Jadid fued (why mention that?)

Asad paranoid sounding, entourage "difficult to penetrate"


	...Other KGB contacts in, or close to, the Syrian 
government during the early years of the Asad regime 
continued to include the long-standing agent IZZAT, 
Tarazi Salah al-Din, director-general of the Syrian foreign 
ministry and later a member of the International Tribunal 
in The Hague.— Other KGB contacts included two 
generals in the Syrian army, OFITSER and REMIZ;— 
SARKIS, an air- force general;— PREYER and NIK, both 
Syrian ministers;— PATRIOT, adviser to Asad’s first 
Prime Minister, ‘Abd al-Ra’hman Khulayfawi (1970- 
74);— SHARLE (‘Charles’), adviser to Asad’s second 
Prime Minister, Mahmud al-Ayyubi (1974-76);— 
VATAR, who provided copies of cipher telegrams 
obtained by Syrian intelligence from the US embassy in 
Beirut;— BRAT, an intelligence operations officer;— 
FARES and GARGANYUA, both proprietors and 
editors-in-chief of Syrian newspapers;— VALID, a senior 
official in the Central Statistical Directorate;— and 
TAGIR, a leading official of the Syrian Arab Socialist 
Union.— There is no indication, however, that any had 
significant direct access to Asad. Mitrokhin’s brief notes 
on them also give very little indication of the intelligence 
which they supplied and whether most were agents or 
confidential contacts.


KGB had many agents or contacts in Syrian government and society in high places--generals, head of foreign ministry, ministers, advisors, newspaper editors, activists


Asad traveled to Soviet Union "six times during his first three years as Syrian leader." Stayed in bugged apartment. Made deals for arms but didn't want to be seen as Soviet client state.


had a lot of agents and ops in Syrian embassy in Moscow, interesting stories in Mitrokhin notes.


	...At a meeting in 
Moscow with P. D. Sheyin, a senior officer in the FCD 
Illegals Directorate S on 19 March 1975, Bakdash and a 
close associate (codenamed FARID) agreed to begin the 
search for suitable candidates as soon as they returned to 
Damascus.— They were given the following criteria to 
guide their selection: 


recruiting illegals in Syria through Communist party

Assad appointed some Communist party members but Andrew says Asad didn't know



	...In his keynote address to the Twenty-fifth CPSU 
Congress in February 1976, Brezhnev singled out Syria as 
the Soviet Union’s closest Middle Eastern ally and 
declared that the two countries ‘act in concert in many 
international problems, above all in the Middle East’.— 
Asad was unaware that ‘through agent channels’ the KGB 
was simultaneously planting on him Service A forgeries 
designed to reinforce his suspicion of Sadat and the 
United States. Among them was a bogus despatch from 
the French Foreign Ministry to its embassies in Arab 
capitals in 1976 reporting that Sadat’s decision to 
terminate the Soviet-Egyptian Friendship Treaty had been 
taken under US pressure and was part of his strategy to 
solicit American investment and turn Egypt into a conduit 
for US influence in the oil-producing countries of the 
Middle East.— 


"agent channels" would send forgeries to Assad to increase his suspicion of Sadat and U.S. (or give him cover to act that way?)


	...The public celebration of Soviet- Syrian amity suffered 
a serious setback in June 1976 when Syria intervened in 
the Lebanese civil war in favour of the Maronite 
Christians against their PLO and left-wing opponents, 
with some of whom the KGB had close contacts. The left- 
wing leader, Kamal Jumblatt, was one of only a handful 
of Arabs to have been awarded the Lenin Peace Prize. 
Talks in Moscow in July between Khaddam, the Syrian 
Foreign Minister, and his Soviet counterpart, Gromyko, 
ended in such disarray that no joint communique was 
issued. Pravda declared that Syria was plunging ‘a knife 
into the back’ of the Palestinian movement.— Asad would 
have been further outraged had he known that the KGB 
residency in Damascus was secretly providing funds to 
support the Lebanese Communist Party which opposed 
Syrian intervention.


Asad attacked PLO and KGB allies in 1976 Lebanese civil war... why?


	...The main practical effect of the Soviet-Syrian quarrel 
during the second half of 1976 was an apparently drastic 
cutback in Soviet arms supplies. Asad retaliated by 
refusing an invitation to visit Moscow and by expelling 
about half the Soviet military advisers (then more 
numerous in Syria than anywhere else in the world). In 
January 1977 he instructed the Soviet navy to remove its 
submarines and support craft from the port of Tartus. 
Over the next few months, however, the winding down of 
Syrian involvement in the Lebanese civil war made 
possible the mending of the rift with Moscow. After the 
assassination of Kamal Jumblatt in March 1977, his son 
and successor Walid called on Asad at the end of the 
forty-day period of mourning - despite widespread and 
apparently well-founded suspicions that Asad had ordered 
his father’s death. In April Asad decided to mend his 
fences with the Soviet Union and flew to Moscow where 
he was greeted personally at the airport by Brezhnev. At a 
banquet in the Kremlin, Asad declared that Soviet- Syrian 
relations had ‘overcome all the difficulties in their way’: 
‘We have always been convinced that the relations 
between our two countries are based on identity of 
principled outlook and on friendship and common 
interests . . During 1977 Soviet arms exports to Syria 
totalled $825 million. In the following year they exceeded 
$1 billion for the first time.


Asad and Soviets had falling-out after 1976 inervention

weird detail about Walid Jumblatt (was Asad being blackmailed or something? why did Andrew put that there?) But after that Asad goes and mends things with Soviets, gets more arms.


	...In the later 1970s, Moscow once again made the 
mistake of trying to force the pace in strengthening its 
alliance with Asad. In an obvious reference to renewed 
Soviet proposals for a Treaty of Friendship and Co- 
operation, Brezhnev told him during a Moscow banquet 
in his honour in October 1978 that the Soviet Union was 
prepared to expand co-operation with Syria still further, 
‘particularly in the field of politics’. A month later, during 
a visit to Moscow by the Chief of the Syrian General 
Staff, General Hikmat Shihabi, there was an attempt to 
pressure him to conclude a trilateral pact with the Soviet 
Union and Iraq.


trying to pressure Asad? or cover for agents? either way seems relationship was such that conformtable asking these things.


	In January 1980, in a further attempt to please Moscow, 
Asad included two members of the Bakdash faction of the 
Syrian Communist Party in his new government. He also 
allowed the exiled leader of the Iraqi Communist Party, 
Aziz Muhammad,— to base himself in Syria. In October, 
Asad finally agreed to sign a twenty-year Treaty of 
Friendship and Co-operation with the Soviet Union. 
During 1980 Syrian arms imports from the Soviet bloc 
exceeded $3 billion.— 

While reinforcing its alliance with Asad, Moscow 
secretly strengthened its covert relationship with Bakdash. 

In 1978 Bakdash had assured one of his KGB contacts 
that, while he remained Party leader, ‘there would never 
be a Carrillo or even a Marchais’ - in other words, that the 
Party would remain uncompromisingly loyal to Moscow 
and ideologically orthodox.— He told the Party Congress 
in 1980: ‘I firmly believe that it is not enough [merely] to 
declare friendship for the Soviet Union. Rather, we must 
support every action in Soviet foreign policy which has 
always been, still is, and always will be in harmony with 
the interests of all people.’— 

Bakdash also benefited from the support of Asad. 
Immediately after the signature of the Friendship Treaty 
in October 1980, Asad began a campaign of intimidation 
and terror against a Communist breakaway group, led by 
Bakdash’ s opponent, Riyadh al-Turk.


KGB and Asad supported Bakdash, leading communist elements loyal to Moscow in Syria, recruiting agents.

Asad eventually signed friendship agreement in 1980, apparently Soviets actually wanted it



more on him in here, but overall seems like KGB had substantial influence over Asad and where happy with their influence. Nature of influence (like money, ideology, coercion) unclear.



------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_September#Foreign_intervention
	On 22 September, Hussein ordered the Royal Jordanian Air Force to attack the Syrian forces.[56] A joint air-ground offensive proved successful, contributing to the success was the Syrian Air Force's abstention from joining.[57] This has been attributed to power struggles within the Syrian Ba'athist government between Syrian President Salah Jadid and Syrian Air Force commander Hafez Al-Assad.[57] Al-Assad claimed power after a coup on 13 November.


if read right sounds like Assad stopped airforce from attacking... why?

http://www.nytimes.com/1993/08/24/obituaries/salah-jadid-63-leader-of-syria-deposed-and-imprisoned-by-assad.html
	 Mr. Jadid's fall from power began in September 1970, when he sent armored columns into neighboring Jordan to aid Palestinians fighting King Hussein. Mr. Assad, then the air force commander and Defense Minister, refused to provide air cover because he feared starting a conflict with Israel.

	King Hussein's Arab Legion defeated the Syrians, and Mr. Jadid was blamed for the debacle. Mr. Assad seized the opportunity to depose Mr. Jadid. 


weird

so they got something out of it anyway


http://www.nybooks.com/articles/1990/11/22/asad-and-black-september/
	In September 1970—the “Black September” of Arab retrospect—Salah Jadid sent more than a hundred Syrian tanks into Jordan in support of Palestinian forces then under attack by the Jordanian forces. Asad, then minister of defence, grounded the Syrian Air Force, allowing the Syrian tanks to be mauled by the Jordanian Air Force. “Badly defeated by the Jordanian forces, the Syrian tanks began to withdraw from Jordan on September 23–24 leaving a large number of vehicles destroyed or captured by Jordanian forces.” [Quandt, Jabber and Lesch, The Politics of Palestinian Nationalism, University of California Press, 1973, pp. 126–128.]

	In my book The Siege, I comment on this episode as follows:

		It seems worth noting that the domestic effects of Assad’s course—the destruction of the armoured force that accepted a rival faction’s order, and the preservation of the Air Force that accepted Assad’s order altered the internal balance of forces in Syria in Assad’s favour…. Two months later, Assad seized supreme power in Syria. [The Siege, Simon and Schuster, 1986, p. 481.] 


this seems off

you could just as easily blame Asad for Syria's loss as Jadid


	...In O’Brien’s telling, Asad allowed the tank forces under the control of his rival, Jadid, to be mauled in Jordan, thus paving the way for Asad to eliminate Jadid. But Seale argues that Asad was already “master of Syria in all but name” before the Black September crisis and that all the key military forces were in his hand. “There could have been no armed intervention in Jordan of which Asad did not approve,” Seale writes.

	But Seale also believes that Asad went into Jordan only half-heartedly. He wished to protect the Palestinians. But he had no sympathy for their aim of marching on Amman and no wish to see King Hussein overthrown, as did the Palestinians. Moreover, Asad had no desire to tangle with King Hussein’s troops or to be drawn into a military engagement with Israel. When large numbers of Syrian tanks were mauled by the Jordanians, and Israel began to mobilize troops, presumably to strike at Syrian forces, Asad quietly withdrew the Syrian forces. Seale’s interpretation is thus at variance with the conventional view.

	Conor Cruise O’Brien will find interesting Seale’s assessment of the outcome for Asad. He writes that “his intervention was ill-considered, half-hearted, and unsuccessful. He accomplished nothing of benefit to himself, to Syria, or to the Palestinians whom he was trying to help.”


not really sure what's going on here

looks like Asad could have signed off on tanks going on and also witheld air force

But Jadid blamed anyway? scandal after this said to have precipitated coup in Syria.

Maybe it pissed off the military, and they blamed Jadid?


