http://www.meforum.org/1768/terror-in-black-september-an-eyewitness-account
	On September 6, 1970, terrorists from the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) hijacked TWA flight 741 from Frankfurt to New York and Swiss Air flight 100 from Zurich to New York, diverting them both to a disused airfield in the Jordanian desert. Terrorists also hijacked Pan Am flight 93 from Amsterdam and diverted it to Beirut and then Cairo. El Al officials thwarted another hijacking attempt on their flight from Amsterdam. On September 9, another PFLP sympathizer seized a British Overseas Airways Corporation flight in Bahrain and brought it to the same Jordanian airstrip as the first two. The terrorists removed all hostages, separating fifty-four Jewish and other captives, and blew up the empty planes.

	The multiple, coordinated hijackings precipitated a crisis culminating in battles between Palestinian militias and terrorists and the Jordanian army. On September 16, 1970, Jordan's King Hussein declared martial law. Two days later, Syrian-based forces intervened in the name of the Palestine Liberation Army, prompting Israel to mobilize its forces as a warning that Syrian interference could lead to a wider war. President Richard Nixon ordered an aircraft carrier task force to the region to evacuate U.S. citizens and protect U.S. interests and the Jordanian monarchy. The Jordanian military's victory over the Palestinian and Syrian forces, however, averted wider crisis.


PFLP hijacks three planes and diverts to Jordanian desert, took hostages, blew up planes.

led to crisis, battle between Jordan army and terrorists/militias (how?)

Syria intervenes for PLA for some reason, Isreal mobilizes in response. Concerns of wider war. U.S. backs Jordanian monarchy.

kindof reminds me of WW1. A smaller conflict escalating into a wider conflict, sparked by an act of terror. Jordan victory over PLA and Syria "averted a wider crisis."



what did KGB want out of this? Did they want a wider war? in WW1 a wider war helped them get away with Bolshevik revolution. What would a wider war have done for them here?



------

beligerants

PLFP

https://www.britannica.com/topic/Popular-Front-for-the-Liberation-of-Palestine
	Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), Arabic al-Jabhah al-Shaʿbiyyah li-Taḥrīr Filasṭīn, organization providing an institutional framework for militant organizations associated with the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), notable for its Marxist-Leninist ideology and its hijacking of a number of aircraft between 1968 and 1974.

PLFP associated with PLO, Marxist

attacked Israel and West, rejected compromise with Israel. Ostensibly wanted to "liberate" Palestine. Headed by Habash.


https://archive.org/stream/TheWorldWasGoingOurWayTheKGBAndTheBattleForTheTheThirdWorld/The%20World%20Was%20Going%20Our%20Way_djvu.txt
	The unexpected surge of international terrorism in the early 1970s and the precedent set a few years before by the KGB’s use of Sandinista guerrillas against US targets in Central and North America — encouraged the Centre to consider the use of Palestinian terrorists as proxies in the Middle East and Europe. In 1970 the KGB began secret arms deliveries to the Marxist-Leninist Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP).— The secret was remarkably well kept. Though there were a series of Western press reports on support for the PFLP from Syria, Iraq and Libya, there were none of any significance on its Soviet connection.


KGB considered PFLP proxies? supporting them for awhile. Western press mum on it.


------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_September

PLO, headed by Arafat, fought against Jordanian JAF


what is angle here? I guess they could bring in Syria in Israel, have another war with Muslim nations fighting Jewish nation, split Muslims and Jews? Bringing in U.S. in support of Israel would help put Muslims, Arab nations agains the U.S. as well.


-----


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Karameh

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_September


lead up to this is complicated

Before all this/while its going on, the Soviets and U.S. were vying for influence over Jordan (https://archive.org/stream/TheSeptember1970Crisis/The%20September%201970%20crisis_djvu.txt). It sounds like King Hussein was leaning more toward West, which could have motivated KGB agents to act against him.

After Jordon annexed the West Bank in 1951, they gave Palestinians citizenship, 2/3rds of Jordan citizens were Palestinian.

Terrorist organizations in Jordan would attack Isreal, and Isreal would respond, straining Isreali-Jordan relations. There was a debate over whether or not King Hussein was doing enough to stop the attacks from Jordan.

after the six day war, the PLO moved their base to Jordan and launched terrorist attacks against Israel

Israel attacks their bases in Jordon in Battle of Karameh, thinking Jordan won't get involved, but Jordan deployed artillery against IDF instead. King Hussein says "I think we may reach a position where we are all fedayeen" after the battle.

So before Black September, the JAF was siding with PLO against IDF


The battle of Karameh made the IDF seem less "invincible" and helped the PLO's recruiting a lot. After this, the PLO grows in strength and talks about overthrowing the monarchy. Wikipedia says these tensions culminated in black September, after which the PLO was expelled to Lebanon.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_September

Battle of Karameh against Isreal lead to "upsurge in Arab support" for Palestinian fighers in Jordan and PLO. PLO becomes "state within a state" with their own laws (like ISIS?), tries to assassinate king twice, violent confrontations with Jordon army in June 1970.

There were some conflicts between PLO and Jordan. The PLO took over cities and established "independant republics," tried to extract taxes. Attacked Jordanian police in November 1968 and Jordanian army struck back. Things got bad and they tried to strike an agreement (7-point agreement). The PLO did a bad job of following agreement. The KGB was in control of them around this time (Arafat became PLO leader in Feb 1969, was previously with terrorist organization "Fatah" who gained controll over PLO).

PFLP under Habash was openly questioning legitimacy of King Hussein by 1970. Calling him "puppet of Western Imperialism" and "reactionary."

Around this time the PLO starts getting cocky and stirring shit. "Palestinians claimed there were numerous agents provocateurs from Jordanian or other security services present among the fedayeen, deliberately trying to upset political relations and provide justification for a crackdown."


from Wikipedia "Black September":
	The situation placed Hussein in a severe dilemma: if he used force to oust the fedayeen, he would alienate himself from the Palestinians in the country and the Arab World.[36] However, if he refused to act to strike back at the fedayeen, he would lose the respect of Jordanians, and more seriously, that of the army, the backbone of the regime, which already started to pressure Hussein to act against them.[36] In February 1970, King Hussein visited Egyptian President Nasser in Cairo, and won his support for taking a tougher stance against the fedayeen.[36] Nasser also agreed to influence the fedayeen to desist from undermining Hussein's regime.[36] Upon his return, he published a ten-point edict restricting activities of the Palestinian organizations, which included prohibition of the following: carrying arms publicly, storing ammunitions in villages, and holding demonstrations and meetings without prior governmental consent.[36] The fedayeen reacted violently to these efforts aimed at curbing their power, which led Hussein to freeze the new regulation;[36] he also acquiesced to fedayeen demands of dismissing the perceived anti-Palestinian interior minister Muhammad Al-Kailani.[36] Hussein's policy of giving concessions to the fedayeen was to gain time, but Western newspapers started floating sensationalized stories that Hussein was losing control over Jordan and that he might abdicate soon.


"Western press" usually means KGB... what were they trying to do with the PLO-Jordan conflict? I guess they wanted him to crack down, and Nasser did too? Nasser had a "special relationship" with the KGB and was important to them.

Kissinger, along with "Western press," also commented that Hussein's concessions to PFLP were undermining his credibility. Later, after King Hussein attacked the Fedayeen, the "Arab media" accused him of massacring the Palestinings and Hussein agreed to a cease-fire.


Libya, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Syria, (others?) support the fedayeen (why?). King Hussein is in a bind in finding support to fight them. He can go to Isreal or the U.S., but that would galvanize the fedayeen. He asks about Isreal stance on Jordan attacking fedayeen on 17 Feb 1970.

Sounds like a set-up for a wider war, mostly based off of Islam vs U.S.-Isreal conflict.

Meanwhile, rocket attacks from fedayeen strain Jordan-Israel relations, Isreal attacks Jordan territory and Jordan shells an Israeli city. But Hussecalls for a ceasfire and saying he's doing "everything he can" to stop rocket attacks. The Jordan army is getting fed up and moves to attack the fedayeen on their own.

Sounds like Hussein was in a lose-lose position--either let the Fedayeen continue attacks and have Israel violating their sovereignty and legitimacy undermined (e.g. with army), or attack Fedayeen and cause internal conflict and galvanize them.

Sort-of reminds me of black hand and "pan slavism" in Serbia. Dunno if they held territory but they had a lot of political power. I think the same idea of stoking ethnic conflict (palestinians vs Jordanians) or conflict based on some other "identity" to create a state within a state and influence countries and world events that way.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dawson's_Field_hijackings

Wikipedia says one of the issues for King Hussein was the use of Jordanian territory in the incident

Possibly, Jordan government would also not want to be seen as supporting Palestinian terrorists after this


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_September

After Dawson's field hijackings, the Jordan army surrounds PLO strongholds in major cities Armman and Irbid. A day later a force from Syria with PLA markings advances toward Irbid. Withdrew after Jordan inflicted heavy Syrian losses.


------


What exactly is relationship between PLO, PLFP, and PLA?

What did Nasser tell King Hussein? Hussein made a move against fedayeen right after meeting with Nasser.

Why did Syria intervene?

Wikipedia says Arafat "could not dissociate himself" from the hijackings--how was he involved?

Some sort of political struggle in Iraq and Syria stopped them from intervening further. What exactly happened?


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_September
	Hussein agreed to a cease-fire after Arab media started accusing him of massacring the Palestinians.[59] Jordanian Prime Minister Muhammad Daoud defected to Libya after being pressured by President Muammar Al-Gaddafi, while the former was in Egypt representing Jordan at an emergency Arab League summit.[59] Hussein then decided to fly himself to Cairo on 26 September, where he was met with hostility from Arab leaders.[59] On 27 September, Hussein and Arafat signed an agreement brokered by Egyptian President Nasser.[59] Nasser died the following day of a heart attack.


wtf was going on here?

After Black September, Fatah in "Black September Organization" also assassinated Jordan Prime minister Wasfi al-Tal.

Why would KGB want the war with Syria, PLO (and Iraq? others?) against Jordan, Israel, U.S.? One motivation is to install a communist state in Jordan, another is to divide West and Islamic world more. Two could be related--backdrop to this according to "World Was going our way" is that the KGB was struggling to spread communism in the Middle East around this time.


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_September
	Fighting broke out again between the fedayeen and the army in Zarqa on 7 June.[40] Two days later, the fedayeen opened fire on the General Intelligence Directorate's (mukhabarat) headquarters.[40] Hussein went to visit the mukhabarat headquarters after the incident, but his motorcade came under heavy fedayeen fire, killing one of his guards.[40] Bedouin units of the army retaliated for the assassination attempt against their king by shelling Al-Wehdat and Al-Hussein camps, which escalated into a conflict that lasted three days.[40] An Israeli army meeting deliberated on events in Jordan; according to the director of Israel's Military Intelligence, there were around 2,000 fedayeen in Amman armed with mortars and Katyusha rockets.


where did they get these? Mitrokihn archives say the KGB armed the PFLP

	...Hussein's advisors were divided: some were urging him to finish the job, while others were calling for restraint as victory could only be accomplished at the cost of thousands of lives, which to them was unacceptable.[41] Hussein halted the fighting, and the three-day conflict's toll was around 300 dead and 700 wounded, including civilians.[41]

	A ceasefire was announced by Hussein and Arafat, but the PFLP did not abide by it.[41] It immediately held around 68 foreign nationals hostage in two Amman hotels, threatening to blow them up with the buildings if Sharif Shaker and Sharif Nasser were not dismissed and the Special Forces unit disbanded.[41] Arafat did not agree with the PFLP, but had to play along as he feared public opinion.[41] Hussein compromised and reduced tensions by appointing Mashour Haditha Al-Jazy, who was considered a moderate general, as army chief of staff, and Abdelmunim Al-Rifai as prime minister, who in turn included six Palestinians as ministers in his government.


the PFLP used terrorism to make very specific demands... did they want certain people to be in top-level government positions? A sort of government takeover by corecion.

With the airline hijackings, they threatened to blow up more if fedayeen prisoners weren't released in Europe and Israel.


------


King Hussein seems to have generally acted reasonably in dealing with Fedayeen, at least it looks like he didn't do as brutal of a crackdown as the KGB might have wanted. After the September hijackings and two assassination attempts on him, he ordered his troops to attack the Fedayeen in Amman.

The fighting lasted 10 days (longer than his generals expected), and the Fedayeen were armed with tanks and were prepared. "Arab countries" (which?) pressured Hussein to stop the fighting. 

Hussein delcared martial law Sep 15, attacked Amman Sep 17. On Sep 18, forces with PLA markings marched toward Irbid from Syria. The troops were from the Syrian army. Syria gave no explanation for the incursion. The Iraqi army also stayed there after 6 day war and it is was uncertain if they would act for Fedayeen or not, so the Jordan army had to leave some troops behind to watch them.

Hussein freaks out and calls for foreign help, believes this is an existential crisis for Jordan. Calls on British aid but they refuse, but Nixon and Kissinger are receptive. The PLO had also captured 50 British, German, and American hostages. Kissinger parks a carrier group outside Israel.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_September
	On 22 September, Hussein ordered the Royal Jordanian Air Force to attack the Syrian forces.[56] A joint air-ground offensive proved successful, contributing to the success was the Syrian Air Force's abstention from joining.[57] This has been attributed to power struggles within the Syrian Ba'athist government between Syrian President Salah Jadid and Syrian Air Force commander Hafez Al-Assad.[57] Al-Assad claimed power after a coup on 13 November.[57] Iraqi impartiality was attributed to Iraqi general Hardan Al-Tikriti's commitment to Hussein not to interfere—he was assassinated a year later for this.[7] It is thought that the rivalry between the Iraqi and Syrian Ba'ath Party was the real reason for Iraqi non-involvement.[7]


Some in Syria and Iraq act to prevent a wider war--did they know what was going on and try to stop it? It's like learning after WWI.


------


https://archive.org/details/TheWorldWasGoingOurWayTheKGBAndTheBattleForTheTheThirdWorld


https://www.quora.com/Israeli%E2%80%93Palestinian-Conflict-Was-it-true-that-in-1970-Syria-tried-to-invade-Jordan-and-was-only-prevented-from-doing-that-by-Israel
