
Skip to main content

    web
    texts
    movies
    audio
    software
    image
    logo
    search

    upload
    personSIGN IN

    ABOUT
    CONTACT
    BLOG
    PROJECTS
    HELP
    DONATE
    JOBS
    VOLUNTEER
    PEOPLE

Full text of "The September 1970 Crisis"
See other formats

\mSL a- 


KING HUSSEIN 
OF JORDAN 

A POLITICAL LIFE 


NIGEL ASHTON 


L A l - Rivjul Niissar Library 


2 4 NOV 2008 

RECEIVED 


YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS 
NEW HAVEN AND LONDON 


Copyright © 2008 Nigel Ashton 

The right of Nigel Ashton to be identified as author of this work has been asserted by 
him in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988. 

All rights reserved. This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part, in any form 
(beyond that copying permitted by Sections 107 and 108 of the U.S. Copyright Law and 
except by reviewers for the public press) without written permission from the publishers. 

For information about this and other Yale University Press publications, please contact: 

U.S. Office: sales.press@yale.edu yalebooks.com 

Europe Office: sales@yaleup.co.uk www.yaleup.co.uk 

Set in Minion by SX Composing, Rayleigh, Essex 
Printed in the United States of America by Sheridan Books 

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 

Ashton, Nigel John. 

King Hussein of Jordan : a political life / Nigel Ashton, 
p. cm. 

Includes bibliographical references and index. 

ISBN 978-0-300-09167-0 (ci : alk. paper) 1. Hussein, King of Jordan, 1935-1999. 

2. Jordan — Kings and rulers — Biography. 3. Jordan — Politics and government — 
1952-1999. I. 

Title. 

DS154.55.A84 2008 
956.9504*4092 — dc22 
[B] 

2008010803 

A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library. 


10 98765432 1 



CHAPTER 8 


'Seven Questions of Israel' 

THE SEPTEMBER 1970 CRISIS 


I n parallel with the faltering peace process during 1967-8, Hussein struggled 
to rebuild his kingdom and his shattered armed forces. He also seriously 
considered a major reorientation of his international position. In view of the 
pro-Israeli bias demonstrated by the United States during and after the 1967 
conflict, should he turn instead to Moscow for the military equipment his 
armed forces needed? Of course, the ramifications of such a decision would be 
wide-ranging. Hussein would in effect be changing camps in the Arab world 
and jettisoning one of the main ideological pillars of his rule: the notion that 
Hashemite Arab nationalism was incompatible with communism. 

Despite the fact that the King had committed himself in his autobiography, 
Uneasy Lies the Head , written at the beginning of the 1960s, to alignment with 
the West against what he portrayed as the atheistic and un-Islamic threat of 
communism, 1 his decision not to turn to the Soviet Union early in 1968 was 
a close-run thing. In one particularly tense meeting on 8 January 1968, the US 
Ambassador Harrison Symmes and the CIA station chief Jack O’Connell only 
just managed to deflect the King from his decision to accept a high-level 
Soviet military delegation. According to Symmes, the King had evidently 
come to the conclusion that the US had no intention of supplying more than 
token arms to Jordan and ‘we were only stringing him along’. Symmes 
reported that Hussein had developed a deep sense of guilt about the June war 
and now felt cornered; only if Washington offered him a way out in the form 
of an acceptable arms package would he feel able to hold to his pro-Western 
course/ CIA Director Richard Helms underlined the danger that Hussein 
would turn East in a memo to President Johnson, noting that the Soviets had 
handled the King, and played on his fears, with ‘considerable skill’. 3 British 


SEVEN QUESTIONS OF ISRAEL’ 


137 


effort in relying on Western backer. With regard to*, he a m d forces h 
Ktng lamented, I have run out of promise, I have made so many whicM 

been “ S *« e' a" ** ^ - 

been reached, if the Americans did not now supply the arms he required he 

would be forced unwillingly to turn to the Russians ’ 4 

In the event in February 1968 US Defense Secretary Robert McNamara 

offered Jordanian Chief of Staff Amer Khammash an arms packigeTu" 

su fficient to prevent the King turning to the Soviets. Still, the King’s rektion 

with the Johnson administration remained strained. Johnson MmLTf 

attempted to pour oil on troubled waters via a personal message to HuTse n 

confirming the US arms offer on 11 Februaiy, which he termed ‘a strong 

reaff irmatlon f our support > The undercurrent a 

relations with the US remained evident in his 2 March reply to the presMem 
Hussein repeated that he had become ‘extremely disheartened bv^ whit 

Israelis’ 7 ^ ( the) Iack of 8 enuine interest in a just and durable peac/by the 

Rank ' 7 P * hC hlghiighted Israel ’ s re P risal attacks against the East 
Bank, noting that ‘her ridiculous and totally incomprehensible excuse for 

omg all this is that I am not fulfilling my so-called duty of ensuring the safety 
and security of her forces which occupy a good portion of my counter s 
Hussein s letter was an attempt to highlight to the' president the 
mtractabihty of th e position in which he found himself. In the wake of the 

, f the Palestima n guerrilla groups, known as the fedayeen had 
escalated their campaign of attacks against Israel. Their underlying position 
was clear: the war had shown that the Arab states were powlrless^gainst 
srael so the Palestinian struggle could only be advanced through Palestinian 
elf rehance and guerrilla warfare. With its large Palestinian population and 

in th- n,/ ’ “ W3S n ° SUrprise that ^ orda n became the front line 

in this struggle. The problem this presented for Hussein was straightforward- 

oS p^f pir™’- Th :, m0re Israd Pl,nished l0rd »" incursion, 
rulf k P j " a " guerrilla groups the weaker the foundations of his 
rule be .me And the weaker those foundations became, the weaker was h 
ability to rent ,n the fedayeen and so forestall the next round ofTsrae 

ImiTt' ‘"’ arChlC SP ' ra ‘ ' Cilll,ed in an inexorable decline in Hussein's 
auUtottty between June 1967 and September 1970. As Hussein pu, i, in 

private conversation wtth former US Treasury Secretary Robert Anderson- 

from ZnTr TV° ‘ hC KrVi " ° f ' he Isr “ lis ^ Protecting them 
Arab allacks b >' a passionate and displaced people when the 

“hich n r u ,r of : failure on my par ' “™ ,d S * 

Israelis which would contribute even further to my own downfall?’ 6 

n terms of Israel’s reprisal policy, as Abba Eban has eloquently argued the 
gears between .967 and ,973 were the era of Moshe Day! Pu'bhdy Syan 


138 


KING HUSSEIN OF JORDAN 


expounded a thesis of unrelenting struggle between the Arabs and Israel, 
requiring that Arab incursions should be ruthlessly punished. As he put it in 
an interview with Haaretz on 19 January 1968, ‘if we are stubborn on all 
fronts, both against Hussein and Nasser, pressure will not decrease - I said 
that there is no way to avert a struggle - but it will be easier for us to hold our 
present positions, at least from the viewpoint of Arab psychology’. 7 As far as 
Dayan himself was concerned this policy was logical. ‘If Israel had not reacted 
so sharply to sabotage operations undertaken from Jordanian territory, the 
government of Jordan would have reached a modus vivendi with the 
terrorists, he later wrote. 8 But Dayan’s public stance stood in remarkable 
contrast to his private willingness after the June war to pursue dialogue with 
Hussein as a means to resolve the conflict. In essence the conundrum of 
Dayan’s role during this period can be resolved in the following way: while 
there was war he was the harshest of Israel’s leaders; if peace could be 
negotiated, he might be prepared to be the most generous. This was certainly 
how Hussein saw matters. Given that Dayan dominated Israel’s defence 
strategy in this period, and that the conflict persisted, it is little wonder that, 
despite Hussein s best efforts, there was no diminution in the pressure exerted 
on the Israeli jaw of the military nutcracker in which he now found himself. 

On the other side of the Palestinian-Israeli divide, the increasing 
assertiveness of the fedayeen groups based in Jordan meant that Hussein 
could also entertain little hope that the pressure on the other jaw of the 
nutcracker would be eased. A large part of Hussein’s problem in negotiating 
with the fedayeen was the fractured and turbulent relations between the 
different Palestinian guerrilla groups themselves. While Fatah, led by Yasser 
Arafat, was prepared to countenance some degree of accommodation with 
the Hashemite regime, other groups, including the Popular Front for the 
Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), led by George Habash, and the Popular 
Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PDFLP), a PFLP splinter 
organisation formed in 1969 and led by Nayif Hawatmeh, were not. As 
Marxist-inspired groups, the PFLP and PDFLP were ideologically committed 
to the overthrow of the Hashemite monarchy as the first step on the road to 
the liberation of Palestine. 

Less than three weeks after Hussein’s 2 March letter to Johnson came the 
battle of Karameh, a key turning point for both the fedayeen and the 
Hashemite regime. The outline of what took place is relatively clear. In 
retaliation for Fatah’s bombing of a bus carrying schoolchildren through the 
Negev Desert, Israel resolved to carry out a major raid on a refugee camp 
which also acted as Arafat’s headquarters, at the village of Karameh in the 
Jordan Valley. The King attempted to forestall Israeli retaliation, through a 
top-secret message passed by the US State Department to the Israeli govern- 
ment, in which he expressed deep regret at the bombing and asked for any 


‘SEVEN QUESTIONS OF ISRAEL’ 


139 


information which the Israelis might have which would help in tracking 
down the perpetrators. But to no avail. 9 The Israeli forces attacked on 2I 
arch, meeting stiff resistance from the Jordanian army and Arafat’s 
fedayeen. Jordanian artillery succeeded in knocking out a number oflsrad 
anks and other vehicles while the fedayeen themselves, although Hugely 

When dT XT Ae ISraeh arm ° Ur ’ St °° d thdr § round a nd fought bravely 
When the Israelis eventually withdrew at the end of the day after partially 

demolishing the village, they left behind a number of wrecked tanks which 

were ater ragged back to Amman and paraded as symbols of victory 10 

More important than the details of the battle was the propaganda vktorv it 

anded to Arafat and his fedayeen. Karameh became a symbol of Palestinian 

moZ n ^ ■ ^Most ob PUrred ** ° f Ae Palestinia " “tional 

from X i v ar§Ued th3t the 3ttack had seri ousIy backfired 

from the Israel, perspective. Not only had the image of Israeli militarv 

invincibility fostered by the 1967 war been dented, but the operation had 

RaX th m making the feda y een into popular heroes in Jordan. 12 Gideon 
Rafael, hen the Israel, permanent representative at the United Nations, later 
c nowe g e t at the operation gave an enormous uplift to Yasser Arafat’s 
Fatah organisation and irrevocably implanted the Palestine problem on to the 
in ernational agenda’. 13 At the fourth Palestine National Council (PNC) 

theTd ' 2 m air ° f ° Ur m ° nths later ’ seats were allocated for the first time to 
the fedayeen groups, while at the fifth PNC in February 1969 Yasser Arafat 
was elected chairman of the executive committee of the PLO. A Ad n n 
Abu Odeh writes, ‘to Fatah, al-Karama was a vindication of its strat a 

Z Tb ” pride ' and a so,id creden,ial fOT S0lidti "s 

For the Jordanian army, though, Karameh was their victory The armv 
eeply resented what they regarded as the fedayeen’s appropriation of their 

thTpai°T ; 1 the battIe ° f Karameh changed the international dimensions of 
e Palestinian question, it also marked the beginning of the Darting of 

z s “ e : rmy and th ; §uerriiias - HazL “’ ^ 

Ulster of reconstruction and economic development, and who had been 
c osely involved in the King’s attempts to woo West Bank Palestinian opinion 
“» “ !* ™ later argued rha, he SZtaE 
I ( , 8gCS mist ak e m Jordan. Had it been prepared to acknowledge the 
ole of he army at Karameh, the clash of September 1970 might never have 

ken place. Karameh, he argued, ‘could have been the foundation of closer 
relations rather than of division’. 15 0t closer 

On In t he e onrhi„d' f 0 ’ 5 ,he Ki "8 «> ™kward dilemma. 

hC 0 " e kand > he could n °t ignore the huge groundswell of popular 
opinion which gathered behind the fedayeen cause. On the other he could 
no, afford alienate the army, whose loyalty was the one sum gulramor if 



140 


KING HUSSEIN OF JORDAN 


his own position. The King’s solution to the problem was to try to straddle 
the emerging divide between the fedayeen and the army and, if possible, close 
it. So he strove to promote coordination with the fedayeen on the domestic 
and inter-Arab levels, while at the same time stressing the unity of 
Palestinians and Jordanians in the struggle with Israel. Only through the 
steadfastness of all, he argued, could victory be achieved. 16 This was the 
sentiment underlying Hussein’s oft-quoted comment made two days after 
the battle of Karameh: T think we have come to the point now where we are 
all fedayeen.’ 1 y In private, the King even established personal contact with 
both the Fatah and PFLP leadership in an effort to ‘influence them to 
cooperate with him in seeking [a] political settlement by suspending their 
present guerrilla activities . According to Hussein, ‘no one else even in his 
own government knew of these private contacts’, which produced some 
limited dividends in terms of local ceasefire arrangements. 18 Unfortunately, 
though, Hussein noted that a potentially serious complicating factor in his 
efforts to control the fedayeen was the presence in the Jordan Valley of ‘Israeli 
agents posing as terrorists’. He did not rule out the possibility that these 
Israeli agents might be involved in creating incidents. 

During the rest of 1968 and 1969, the King continued to pursue the 
dwindling chance of unity and coordination with the fedayeen. Both 
conciliation and repression held out serious risks for Hussein, with Chief of 
Staff Amer Khammash privately likening him to ‘the man who swallowed a 
razor blade - upward and downward movements are equally dangerous’. 19 By 
the spring of 1969 Hussein was, by his own admission, approaching a state of 
hopelessness about his position, as the failure of his strategy became 
evident/ 0 Under the weight of Israeli attacks the fedayeen were driven back 
from their forward bases in the Jordan Valley to the main East Bank towns 
and cities, particularly Amman. Here they increasingly acted as a state within 
a state, ignoring the authority of the local police and frequently antagonising 
the army. By the beginning of 1970 it was clear that the King’s pleas for 
steadfastness and unity had been useless. On 10 February 1970 the govern- 
ment instead attempted to enforce law and order, issuing a list of twelve rules 
by which the fedayeen had to abide. 21 The results were huge demonstrations 
in the streets of Amman, and a hasty move by the King to instruct the 
government to suspend its decision. 

In the wake of the crisis, the King received a private letter from his old 
friend, the former British Foreign Secretary George Brown, who had recently 
returned from a January 1970 visit to Israel. The public face of the visit had 
been controversial, with Brown having a flaming row with the former director 
of military intelligence, Chaim Herzog, at a dinner party held at Abba Eban’s 
house on the last day of his trip. In heated exchanges, Brown had gone so far 
as to accuse the Israelis of having murdered King Abdullah. Earlier in his visit, 


‘SEVEN QUESTIONS OF ISRAEL’ 


141 


Ugh Brown had also had a private meeting with Deputy Prime Minister 
igal Mon, who invited him to dine alone at his kibbutz. According to 
Brown s coded account, Allon told him that Prime Minister Golda Meir had 
speci ica y as ed him, as the leader of the moderates within the Israeli 
government, to pass on a message that she desperately wanted a peace settle- 

411 ° • , 6 P 0t n ° W thlckeneci farther. After Brown’s return to England 

Allon paid a visit to London at the end of February during which he made a’ 
completely unpublicised late-night visit to Brown’s flat. Here, he repeated 
a proposmon that he had made during the earlier dinner conversation at his 
kibbutz: Brown was authorized, if I could find some way of getting nego- 
tiations started through my personal associations with President Nasser and 
King Hussein, to go ahead and do so’. 23 This was the background to the letter 
Brown wrote to Hussein on 5 March, part of which has been quoted already 


I watched, as you might imagine, with the deepest of interest your 
confrontation a week or so ago. I think I should let you know that I am 
still being used as a post-box. Letters these days are bad. Too many 
people read them. I wonder whether I could meet you, or anybody you 

would nominate, in any place to have a talk about the situation as I now 
think it to be. 24 

‘I would certainly like to meet with you to discuss in detail the situation as 
it stands now, Hussein wrote in reply. 23 In the event, though, Brown’s 
initiative came to nothing: a second letter which he despatched to Nasser met 
with a much more cautious response. Nevertheless, it is worth noting the 
words with which Brown concluded his discussion of the episode in his 
memoirs, words which have a broader applicability to the covert role he had 
played between at least 1967 and 1970. T recall very clearly what Golda Meir 

you t0 ”S e: ^ nCed 311 intermediary ' 11 can be an ybody. It could be 

Brown’s letter to Hussein gives the impression that the latter was still in a 
state of gloom. I do not think, if I may suggest it, that there is any point in 
sprea mg pessimism around,’ Brown wrote. ‘Anyway, I am for helping I 

reC f 11 3 Ch3nCe 3nd y ° U and 1 to 8 ether can handle the rest of the 

world! A further insight into Hussein’s state of mind and the pressures he 

was under at this stage is provided by two other pieces of evidence. The first 
is an impassioned, handwritten letter he penned to US President Richard 
Nixon at the end of December 1969. Hussein had initially entertained high 
hopes that Nixon might be more helpful than his predecessor, Johnson, in 
whom Hussein had effectively lost faith by the time he left office. This much 
is clear from the exuberant personal letter of congratulations the King wrote 
o the new president after his election victory. 28 By the end of 1969, though, 


48 

•un 

m 






142 


KING HUSSEIN OF JORDAN 


Hussein was thoroughly disillusioned by Nixon’s stance. In a desperate 
attempt to reach the president personally, and make him understand the 
nature of his predicament, Hussein told Nixon that Israel was waging a ‘one 
sided war’ on Jordan. 29 Examining the pretexts for the Israeli reprisals against 
Jordan, the King argued, ‘I have honestly found them devoid of reason. It is 
perfectly clear that Jordan cannot accept to be held responsible for the 
security of Israel in the Arab areas it occupies ... I must admit Sir to an 
inability to find a shred of evidence of Israel’s genuine interest in an 
honourable final peace in our area’. Finally, in apocalyptic terms, Hussein 
warned, ‘if my people are destined to die then we will do it well having had 
the satisfaction of doing all in our power to achieve peace which appears to be 
denied us and possibly even the world as a result’. 

The second piece of evidence about Hussein’s state of mind at this 
juncture comes from a private meeting which took place between him and 
the former covert US Middle East emissary Robert Anderson on 8 April 
1970. Although Anderson found Hussein calm in his demeanour, he noted 
that the King was obviously under great emotional strain. Hussein explained 
that, earlier the same morning, Jordanian forces had been required to use 
their artillery to drive out Israeli troops who had occupied Jordanian 
territory near the Dead Sea. 

The King was concerned not only about Israeli intentions. He also stated 
emphatically that he did not trust the Iraqi troops who had been stationed in 
Jordan, notionally for the Kingdom’s defence, since the 1967 war. They were 
poorly trained, unstable, and ruled through fear. In an impassioned plea the 
King told Anderson: 

I am completely at bay, surrounded by enemies. On the West Bank I 
have the Israelis; to the north I have the Syrians whose Baathist 
leadership is opposed to my regime; and in my own country I have Iraqi 
troops who are not loyal to me and large elements of the resistance 
movement who do not wish to be subject to any authority. 30 

Hussein confided to Anderson that ‘he was growing more desperate each day 
and saw no hope for the future, although he was a traditional optimist’. 

As if to underline these points, a planned visit to Amman by US Assistant 
Secretary of State Joe Sisco in April 1970 was cancelled at short notice in the 
face of street demonstrations mounted by the fedayeen and their supporters. 
The King took the State Department’s decision as a personal insult which 
implied that even his closest friends in the West did not believe that his writ 
ran in Amman. Hussein’s ire fell in particular on the US Ambassador Harrison 
Symmes, whom he blamed for taking an insufficiently robust line on the Sisco 
visit. 31 This was only the last of a succession of incidents which had witnessed 


‘SEVEN QUESTIONS OF ISRAEL’ 


143 


the gradual erosion of the King’s confidence in Symmes. 32 The King now 
officially requested the ambassador’s removal, an act that said much for the 
strained nature of his relations with the United States. As Symmes himself had 
earlier reported, Hussein was becoming more than ever resentful of the US’s 
close relationship with Israel, believing that US arms supplies and support 
indirectly encouraged Israeli aggression against Jordan. 33 

In addition to the strain it caused to US-Jordanian relations, the Sisco 
affair led the regimes in Damascus and Baghdad to reconsider the durability 
of Hussein s rule. A senior Iraqi delegation went so far as to contact Arafat 
during a visit to Amman in May 1970, promising support should he mount a 
coup to overthrow the Hashemite regime. 34 The intentions of Iraqi forces in 
Jordan remained an awkward imponderable for the King and his advisers. In 
the wake of a PFLP assassination attempt against Hussein on 1 September 
1970, the Iraqis issued an ultimatum to the effect that his forces should stop 
firing on the fedayeen or the Iraqi Eastern Command would take action. 
Hussein took this very seriously, going so far as to call for a joint four-power 
statement from the American, British, French and Soviet governments 
condemning the Iraqi threat of intervention. 35 

The potential Iraqi and Syrian threats showed that Hussein could not 
neglect the broader Arab context in the search for a way out of his dilemma. 
President Nasser showed some understanding of the King’s domestic 
predicament, recognising that it was impossible to run a state in which lawless 
armed factions would not submit to his authority. 36 Unfortunately for 
Hussein, Nasser’s sympathy for his position did not translate into support for 
harsh measures against the fedayeen. The main reason for this was the 
Egyptian leader’s desire to retain influence over the PLO, a strategy which he 
tried to further after the 1967 war by bolstering Arafat’s Fatah movement 
within the organisation. Thus, although the King’s improved relations with 
Nasser gave him some diplomatic room for manoeuvre, they did not help 
him resolve his domestic political problem. 

But probably the most important question in Hussein’s mind by the 
summer of 1970 concerned the intentions of the fedayeen themselves. To be 
sure, his calls for unity and coordination had fallen on barren ground, but 
was this because the fedayeen were committed to the destruction of his 
regime, or simply because they had a different view of the right strategy to be 
adopted in the struggle with Israel? There were obviously differences within 
the Palestinian movement, with the Fatah faction taking a more moderate 
line than the PFLP and PDFLP. Nevertheless, Hussein’s disillusionment with 
Arafat as a negotiating partner forms a crucial part of the explanation of his 
decision to opt for the use of military force in September 1970. 

Indeed, one of the puzzles of the events of 1970 is why the final showdown 
between Hussein and the fedayeen took so long to come, particularly since 


yiva.fi LlOtiH'Yl 

l\i9US> i - 


144 


KING HUSSEIN OF JORDAN 


there was to all intents and purposes a dry run for the crisis earlier in the 
summer On 9 June, an attempt was made on Hussein’s life when his 
motorcade was ambushed by the PFLP. Although the King escaped unscathed 
the incident caused an explosion in tensions between the army and the 
e ayeen. In an effort to avoid a major confrontation, Hussein decided to 
3CC pf! the resignations of two tough anti-fedayeen figures, the Commander 

7 ■?, ! ,' y ’ sharif Nasser > and Third Division Commander Sharif 

Zeid bin Shaker. Taking over supreme command of the country’s armed 
orces himself, he appointed a man more sympathetic to the fedayeen, Major- 
eneral Mashur Haditha al-Jazy, to command the army. The appointment of 
ashur Haditha was a risky move since, according to CIA sources, he had 
been the ringleader of a putative army plot to overthrow Hussein seven 

Itthefime" 7 ' 11 3 ^ ab ° Ut Whkh the King had been informed 

Although the King’s move brought about a short-term reduction in 

w'homTh "ul' n FL u P u e u eaSing 3 gr ° Up ° f foreign nationals 

horn they had briefly held hostage in the al-Urdun and Philadelphia hotels 

Hussein s handling of the crisis further weakened his position. In the final 

resort the army was the only true guarantor of his regime and his removal of 

Sharif Nasser and Zeid bin Shaker had significantly undermined his hold over 

i • ussein later acknowledged, ‘I almost lost control. The people in the 

armed forces began to lose confidence in me ... At that point, some captain 

in the army might actually have been able to rally the rest behind him.’ 38 

PFlVihlTn 11 r a ,T iCS of s P ectacular terrorist acts on the part of the 
PFLP that finally forced the King’s hand. By the end of August the fedayeen 

movement m Jordan had reached a crossroads. The success of the US in 
brokermg a ceasefire in the Egyptian-Israeli war of attrition at the end of July 
1970 seemed to bring Nasser and Hussein closer together in their common 

Pal^ m ? Tl SettlCment ^ ISrae1 ' 39 In an emer gency session of the 
alestme National Council m Amman at the end of the month, there were 

calls from the more radical groups for the overthrow of the Hashemite 
monarchy. Although these were not endorsed by Fatah, the position of the 
moderates was undercut by dramatic action on the part of the PFLP On 1 
September they sprung a carefully planned ambush on Hussein, who was 
making his way to the airport to meet his daughter Princess Alia. Trapped in 
a hail of bullets, the King barely escaped with his life. Without the special 

the Rrv h C ] OS ^ escor [ technic l ues wh ich his bodyguard had received from 
the British SAS he might not have survived at all 

furth h e e r n V 0 h n ^ ^ ^ tHelr Cam P ai g n 3 ^mafic Step 

rther. They hijacked three airliners, two of which were flown to Dawson’s 

‘ e t d> .IT 0 " d c Sert aimrip nCar ZCrqa ’ Whkh the PFLP had ha stily staked 
out with flares, fires and car headlamps. The third plane, a Pan-American 


‘SEVEN QUESTIONS OF ISRAEL’ 


145 


jumbo jet, was flown to Cairo. There th * fxn • j 
the Egyptian army, it was blown un tl,,. owm 8 da b- under the noses of 
with their lives. The PFLP's D0 i„r u passan 8 ers and crew barely escaped 
impotent traitors, ol ISn tf ^ ^ >>«h 

hijacked and flown to ^T«h'er ' n '! ^ 3 fu " h “ pla “ »as 
jubilant. They now hXeart 500 bos 1 V R * 1 The PFLP 

American and British nationals. There conldbenoc ^'” 8 “ a '*' niJmb ' r ° f 
the impotence of the KinsTc r»r»e v 1 C earer demonstration of 

r* -ndidTf ;“ e P pT;;^ - he ^ 

hostage-taking in Jordanian jurisdiction. P ed air piracy and 

showdown. Although the PFLPrelealed^l/of th SUbpl ° tS ° f the Se P te mber 
September before staging the f a f the WOmen and ch iMren on 12 

they held on ° f the hijacked aircraft, 

American-Israeli dual nationals In °* ta§es ’ lnc,udin B the British and the 
the release of an unspecified numb ^ p 'J 86 • ° r the latter> tbey dema nded 
caused friction ^ ” Isradi i ails - This 

prepared to be flexible in trying to satisfy PR^V^ ^ m ° re 

administration took a hard lme« Despite^ these t d ds ’ whlle the ug 
information between London an H w u- tensions ’ the exchange of 

and extensive. Due to the isolation W3$ freqUent 

difficulties, the new US ambascaHn • a mbassy and communications 
the British ^ requested that 

ground in Amman a re o u lTwh, b ’°' m ° f 1 ^formation on rhe 

In respect of b f tbe 

important one. The onlv secure ™ . . e dunn B the crisis was an 

which King H„s!ltotd" a Trr 0n ,he °“* sid ' world *» 

installed by the MIS man in Amman, Bill bem 

a radio which connected Hussein it h P ‘ T Ink took the for m of 
was ‘Mary’, at the British embiss • Ummar to S P ea res, whose codename 
confidence of King Hussei^an^wlf TT', Wh ° had gained the 
with his CIA counterpart Jack O’C ° 3 T T * 8 °° d WOrkin B rel ationship 
unsung, role during Z ^ *** “ imp ° rtant ’ hitherto" 

contemplate^ridn^dedsive^acfion 86 ' 0 T HiS mind ’ 3nd he now 

the Introduction, he in ft ^^16^ ^ ^ 

poned it until the follZni H o September for tb e move,« then post- 
Princess F^al^om hw fortune ^11 * ^ hk ^r-in-law 

natural, the KingTas^ ^also c^ ^ L ° nd ° n - 44 Apart from tb ^ super- 

mention the movements of the Irani tr ° Ut S> 3nd Israeli P ,ans > not to 
prepared for President Nixon by NationaTse" ^Ta A C ° ntingenc y P a P er 
omit'ed any reference ,o a Syrian rhrear, rars^TSlSlX 


ipullllliUM ^ 


*1 


Uivad Nassar uuimvt 

„ * * 


146 


KING HUSSEIN OF JORDAN 


struggle between the Jordanian army and the fedayeen alone, or between the 
army and the fedayeen backed by Iraqi forces. 45 Although Kissinger mentions 
consideration of the Syrian threat in his memoirs, 46 at the time American and 
British officials, partly acting on Israeli intelligence estimates, gave little 
credence to Hussein's warnings about the possibility of Syrian intervention. 47 
In response to Hussein's question about US intentions in the event of a Syrian 
attack, Ambassador Dean Brown cabled Washington: ‘I am not sure how 
serious the King's request is. I can't see any real threat from Syria ... I think 
the King wants his hand held.' 48 

Even more controversial is the question of the King's view of Israeli 
intentions in the crisis. Existing accounts, especially Kissinger's memoirs, 
imply that the King saw Israel as a possible counterweight to deter inter- 
vention on the part of other Arab states, particularly Iraq. Kissinger argues 
that the King had directly requested US views of likely Israeli intentions in the 
face of Iraqi intervention in early August and again in early September. 49 In a 
contemporary contingency paper, Kissinger had speculated that the King 
might already have ‘clandestinely reached a tacit understanding with the 
Israelis that if the Iraqis intervene Israel will attack'. 50 

Nevertheless, there is evidence to support another interpretation: that the 
King saw Israel as a threat. His concern was that Israel might seize the 
opportunity presented by an internal struggle between the army and the 
fedayeen, or by external Arab intervention, to complete some unfinished 
business from the 1967 war. This might involve the seizure of the so-called 
‘Jordanian Golan’ (the area in the north-west of the country around Umm 
Qais), and the foothills of the Jordan Valley overlooking Israeli settlements in 
the Beit Shean area. 51 Certainly, any visitor to the area cannot fail to be struck 
by the commanding position occupied by the ‘Jordanian Golan', which 
constitutes a strategic location second only in importance to the Syrian Golan 
Heights themselves. 

In the same paper in which he had speculated about clandestine dealings 
between the King and the Israelis, Kissinger also noted that if the King was 
compelled to back down in the crisis and accept a weak civilian government 
which would do the PLO's bidding, the ‘chances that Israel would at some 
point feel compelled to seize more territory in Jordan would increase sharply’. 
Moreover, if the King appeared about to fall, the Israelis might well ‘intervene 
on their own or at least seize the heights from which the fedayeen have been 
shelling Israeli settlements'. 52 In the days running up to 17 September the 
King’s concerns focused on Israeli reconnaissance activity in the Jordan 
Valley. Zeid Rifai, then chief of the Royal Court, warned US Ambassador 
Dean Brown on 15 September that Israeli scouting expeditions were 
escalating, ‘using maps which implied to [the] Jordanians that [the] exercise 
was a possible prelude to military invasion of this area'. Rifai urged the US 


‘SEVEN QUESTIONS OF ISRAEL’ 


147 


government to take whatever measures were necessary to ensure that the 
Israelis took no military action. 53 

The final prelude to the launching of military action came on 15 September 
with King Hussein's decision to form a new military cabinet under the 
leadership of Brigadier Muhammad Daud. Although Daud himself was a 
moderate West Banker, and although known hardliners such as Wasfi Tall 
were not included in the cabinet, the King's move clearly signalled his 
intention to opt for a military solution to the crisis. According to Adnan Abu 
Odeh, who was appointed minister of information in the new cabinet, Tall 
still played an important coordinating role behind the scenes. 54 The response 
from the fedayeen was unequivocal. Chairman Arafat refused to conduct any 
negotiations with the new military cabinet. The most he could offer Hussein 
at this stage, he claimed, was twenty-four hours to leave the country. 55 He was 
candid in admitting to a parliamentary delegation that he could not fully 
control the actions of the guerrilla groups. This was the final straw from 
Hussein's point of view. 

17 September dawned to the sound of tank and artillery fire. The Jordanian 
army had finally begun its assault on fedayeen positions. At least one 
American official in Amman had no doubt who would win. Shortly before the 
barrage began he recollected a visit to his house by one of the hard men of 
Hussein s army, Sharif Nasser. ‘You see those three black dogs in your front 
yard, Sharif Nasser told him. ‘If you painted gold stripes on them, some 
people might say they were tigers. But underneath, you and I would still know 
they were dogs.’ The message was clear: the fedayeen’s bark was worse than 
their bite. 56 

As the assault began, a host of concerns were pressing on Hussein, who was 
trying to keep abreast of the situation from his base at Hummar. If he pushed 
forward with the operation would the army split, dividing into Jordanian and 
Palestinian factions? If he called off the offensive could he retain the loyalty of 
the predominantly East Bank officer corps? Would the storm of criticism 
which his action had evoked in the Arab world translate itself into military 
intervention on the part of either Iraqi or Syrian forces? What would the 
Israelis do in this eventuality? And finally, could he rely on the Western 
powers, principally the United States, for support should the situation 
deteriorate dramatically? Zeid Rifai, who was with the King at Hummar, 
conjures up a vivid picture of the uncertainties and chaos of their position, 
with the King isolated and unable to get accurate information, other than via 
Bill Spear es, as to what was happening on the ground. 

By the end of the second day of the operation, Kissinger’s assessment of the 
army’s progress, based on reports from the US embassy in Amman and 
delivered to President Nixon, was couched in gloomy terms. Although the 
army was proceeding methodically to root out the fedayeen and had the 


148 


KING HUSSEIN OF JORDAN 


upper hand in the battle in and around Amman, it was meeting stiff 
resistance. Moreover, elsewhere in the country, particularly in the north, the 
fedayeen had established a strong position. Indeed, the PLO had gone so far 
as to announce the creation of a ‘liberated area’ in and around Jordan’s 
second city of Irbid. At the same time, pressure on Hussein from other Arab 
states to end the fighting was increasing. In the face of these difficulties, it 
remained possible that rather than hunkering down for what promised to be 

a protracted struggle, the King might yet accept some form of compromise 
with the fedayeen. 57 

If the picture had been gloomy on the afternoon of 18 September, just after 
midnight that night the situation took a turn for the worse. Units of the 
Palestine Liberation Army, the Syrian-backed guerrilla group, moved across 
the northern border into Jordan. The PLA was acting at the behest of the 
Syrian regime, and their incursion into Jordan may well have been part of 
the internal struggle for power in Damascus which pitted the more pragmatic 
Hafez Asad, the air force commander, against the more radical Salah 
al-Jadid, deputy secretary of the Baath Party. The PLA was followed on the 
morning of 20 September by a Syrian armoured brigade whose tanks were 
hastily repainted with PLA markings. This was precisely the development 
which the King had feared, and about which he had warned both the British 
and American governments. Although the Syrian forces were engaged by the 
small Jordanian army contingent in the area, the outnumbered Jordanians 
were soon compelled to fall back. During the early evening of 20 September 
the King summoned a meeting of his military cabinet, whose members were 
riven to Hummar m armoured cars. According to Adnan Abu Odeh, who 
attended the meeting, the King explained that the situation in the north was 
grave, and that ‘Jordan might need the help of foreign friends’ in order to 
repel the Syrian invasion. The cabinet granted the King the authorisation he 
asked ror with ‘some reluctance’. 58 

Unknown to the cabinet, that morning the King had already been in touch, 
via the secure radio link, with Bill Speares at the British embassy, calling for 
Israeli or other air intervention or [the] threat thereof. The King repeated his 
request at 6.30 p.m. 59 In London, Foreign Secretary Alec Douglas-Home was 
puzzled by the King’s approach, wondering why he had not chosen to make 
this request directly to the Israelis. 60 The answer is probably because Hussein 
could easily and securely contact Speares with the special radio set in the attic 
of his Hummar Palace, and because he wanted Western intermediaries who 
would act as witnesses to any exchanges with the Israelis. A special cabinet 
committee meeting was now hastily convened in London, following which 
Douglas-Home contacted Ambassador Phillips in Amman. 61 After receiving 
confirmation from Phillips of the King’s request for the British government 
to act as an intermediary, a further meeting was convened in London the 


'SEVEN QUESTIONS OF ISRAEL 


149 




-5-, at wuk.ii u was agreed that the King’s approach put the British 
government in a position of ‘some difficulty’ since London wanted to avoid 

US fsrfl 8§ed f r^ r - thC CriS1S ' 11 WaS dedded that be cause of the 
US Israeli special relationship, Washington would have to be consulted over 
the matter. As to Israeli intentions: 

Doubt was expressed whether the Israelis would go to extreme lengths to 
nsure the survival of the Hashemite regime; they might consider that 

Government u ^ a blatant, y Pro-Fedayeen successor 

2™ WOUld 3t kaSt end what ^ey regard as the West’s 
schizophrenia in its present tolerant attitude towards Jordan. 62 

Sir Denis Greenhill, permanent under-secretary at the Foreign Office 
reporte the King s message to Washington, suggesting, as agreed by the 
cabinet comm,, tee, that the US attain* ration “ s in a be J p's, ,L to 
comae, the Israelis, particularly since Golda Meir was in Washington a, tha, 

Just before midnight, Zeid Rifai offered Dean Brown in Amman a 
clarification of the King’s request to the British.- When Brown askeTftifai 

KS Rff t , he , gOVernment of Jordan ™s ^questing an air strike of 

Kinf hld ’ r P !f r m ' eXaCt W ° rds> - <What he bought [the] 

A h h a ^ When hC d,scussed [the] matter with [the] British 
Ambassador , Brown added, ‘was that [the] Government of Jordan wanted to 

explore this possibility with [the] UK.’ Rifai himself did not request an air 
stnke at this point, although Brown’s assessment was that this was what the 
Jordamans were hoping for if the situation got out of hand. Rifai told him 
that the Kmg was convinced the Syrians were heading for Amman. 

bv a A m 3 ? ttSr ° f h T S ’ Rifai ’ S relati vely soothing words were overtaken 
by a desperate personal request for aid from the King. At 3 am on 21 

September Hussein phoned Brown and asked him to pass the following 
message to President Nixon: 8 

Situatmn deteriorating dangerously following Syrian massive invasion. 
Northern forces disjointed. Irbid occupied. This having disastrous effect 

nhv ‘ red °° PS U1 the ca P ltal and surroundings ... I request immediate 
physical intervention both air and land as per the authorization of 
government to safeguard sovereignty, territorial integrity and inde- 
pendence of Jordan. Immediate rpt immediate air strikes on invading 
orces from any quarter plus air cover are imperative. Wish earliest word 

h I" 8 u “ may reqUirC y ° Ur fOFCeS t0 land when requested 
which might be very soon. 65 


150 


KING HUSSEIN OF JORDAN 


Despite the King’s conviction that the Syrians were planning a full-scale 
invasion, Syrian intentions at this point are in fact difficult to read. As 
mentioned earlier, the internal political situation in Damascus was fluid, with 
Hafez Asad and Salah Jadid vying for power. The most commonly accepted 
interpretation of the Syrian actions in September 1970 is that Jadid, the more 
radical of the two men, ordered the remaining army division under the 
control of the Baath Party leadership into Jordan, while Asad, the more 
pragmatic, withheld the air force from the struggle. The resulting defeat for 
the Baath Party-controlled army division is said to have cleared the way for 
Asad’s seizure of power in Damascus in mid-November. 66 

However, Washington perceived Syria’s intervention quite differently, as a 
Soviet-backed attempt to unseat the pro-Western regime in Amman. 67 If the 
US failed to react, Kissinger argued, The Middle East crisis would deepen as 
radicals and their Soviet sponsors seized the initiative’. 68 When the King’s 
request for an air strike was relayed by the British, Kissinger records that it 
‘reinforced the predisposition in favour of standing aside for an Israeli 
move / The US itself did not possess the intelligence or target information to 
respond rapidly. 

After gaining the president’s approval, Kissinger called the Israeli 
Ambassador Yitzhak Rabin at about 10 that evening to pass on the King’s plea 
for help, and to ask that Israel should carry out reconnaissance over northern 
Jordan. Rabin, who was attending a dinner in honour of Golda Meir in New 
York, responded that he was ‘surprised to hear the United States passing on 
messages of this kind like some sort of mailman’. 70 He told Kissinger that he 
would not relay the request to Meir until he knew whether the US 
administration was recommending that Israel should take action, though in 
fact as soon as he put down the receiver Rabin called Meir away from the 
party and told her the news. Meir phoned Israel immediately, speaking with 
both Acting Prime Minister Yigal Allon - who favoured a strike - and 
Defence Minister Moshe Dayan, who was more cautious. At 10.35 p.m. 
Kissinger called Rabin again with the president in the room. Nixon 
authorised him to say that if the Israeli reconnaissance confirmed a major 
Syrian invasion the US would Took favourably upon an Israeli attack’. 71 As 
Rabin relates the conversation, Kissinger advised Israel to take action ‘subject 
to your own considerations’. 72 

The following morning, 21 September, after carrying out air reconnais- 
sance which confirmed that the Syrians were massing further forces near the 
Jordanian border, the Israeli government submitted seven ‘considerations’ - 
or questions - to the US administration. 73 Most were straightforward, 
concerning the degree of public support the US would lend to any Israeli 
action, but there was one crucial question the administration could not 
answer: ‘will the King agree to request our assistance and to undertake to 


‘SEVEN QUESTIONS OF ISRAEL’ 


151 


institute methods of communication and coordination between us?’ 74 Since 
the Israelis believed air strikes alone would probably be insufficient to drive 
the Syrians out, 75 this question was really asking whether the King would be 
prepared to countenance Israeli ground forces moving on to Jordanian 
territory. Kissinger argues that this question was put indirectly to the 
Americans rather than directly to Hussein because the Israelis, like Hussein 
himself, were suspicious and wanted American witnesses to any deal. 76 In a 
bid to clarify the position Secretary of State Rogers cabled Dean Brown in 
Amman. 7 ' Brown’s response was blunt: ‘the answer is negative’, he cabled. 
The ‘request for air is “from any quarter” but land action [is] requested of 
[the] US and UK. I have had no intimation in any of my talks with [the] King 
or Rifai of any thought of Israeli ground action . . . Ground and air activity 
are two very different things in [the] King’s mind.’ Brown asked Rogers to 
caution the Israelis to avoid any ‘premature, unilateral movement on [the] 
ground or in [the] air’. 78 

Within an hour of Brown’s cable, the situation had changed again. Zeid 
Rifai phoned the ambassador to let him know that the Syrians were on the 
move; they had occupied Irbid and were advancing into the surrounding 
villages. Rifai told Brown that the King wanted an immediate air strike, 
adding when Brown pressed him that the King would ‘much prefer a 
coordinated response’ (rather than one from Israel alone) and that his first 
preference was for a US strike. But since the situation was coming to a critical 
juncture, ‘the most important thing is to hit the Syrians now’. 79 

In the meantime the State Department had received a message from Acting 
Israeli Prime Minister Yigal Allon intended for King Hussein, which was 
forwarded to Brown in Amman. Rogers’s instructions for Brown stressed that 
he should encourage the King to set up a meeting with the Israelis 
immediately since this was the best way they could concert together as to how 
each side could be helpful to the other in present circumstances. 80 Later in the 
afternoon, Israeli Defence Minister Moshe Dayan sought out the US charge 
in Tel Aviv as the two men awaited the arrival of the plane bringing Golda 
Meir back from New York. Dayan complained that he had warned the US 
back in April that in the event of a breakdown in Jordan the only power which 
would be able to bring force to bear would be Israel. The US had failed to 
respond to his suggestion for joint contingency planning and had ‘right down 
to the last few days . . . constantly urged Israel to refrain from any kind of 
intervention in Jordan.’ ‘Now’, said Dayan, ‘when it is too late, you come to 
us with [a] proposal for action.’ 81 

As the situation on the ground deteriorated during the afternoon of 21 
September, the King also issued a formal appeal to the permanent members 
of the UN Security Council to do all they could to halt Syria’s invasion. 82 But 
there was little chance that the Security Council would be able to take 


152 


KING HUSSEIN OF JORDAN 


effective action over the matter, hidebound as it was by Cold War rivalries 
The same day, Assistant Secretary of State Joe Sisco met Yitzhak Rabin in 
ashington, so that Sisco could pass on the US government’s official view of 
Israeli intervention against the Syrians, essentially the same response which 
had been given informally over the phone by Kissinger the previous evening. 
On the question of King Hussein’s assent, Sisco told Rabin: ‘if [the] King 
isagrees, we must take this into account’. 83 In other words, if the US 
administration felt the situation was serious enough, the King would not be 
allowed a veto over an Israeli incursion into Jordan. 84 This exchange high- 
er tc ° n ? e again that considera tions of prestige and credibility lay at the heart 
of US policy-making during the crisis: the Soviets’ Syrian clients could not be 
allowed to overthrow the US-backed Jordanian regime, and in the last resort 
King Hussein s wishes were secondary to what the US decided was in his 
regime s best interests. In fact, the Soviet Union seems to have had no interest 
in a superpower clash over Jordan; although Soviet advisers rode with the 
ynan tank forces down to the Jordanian border, it is clear that the political 
irection for the attack came from Damascus and not from Moscow. 

With time pressing and communications with Amman and between 
Ambassador Brown and the King uncertain, at 10.30 the same evening the US 
administration gave its formal responses to Israel’s seven questions to the 
Israeli Minister in Washington, Shlomo Argov. With no new information on 

the King s attitude to Israeli intervention, Rogers detailed what was known 
so far: 


Israel is aware of the informal exchange of messages between Deputy 
rime Minister Allon and the King which we conveyed. With respect to 
ground operations, the only indication we have of the Jordan attitude on 
this question was a statement of Zeid Rifai to our Ambassador that 
Israeli QUOTE ground operations are fine in the area so long as they are 
not here in Jordan. UNQUOTE We are seeking clarification on this 
question from the King. Israeli air strikes have been requested or 
approved on several occasions by the King. 85 


in response to Rogers’ message to the Israelis, Ambassador Dean Brown 
cabled his own views, arguing that the situation on the ground in northern 
ordan had now started to improve and so the need for an Israeli attack was 
less imperative. If there were to be a ground offensive, Brown felt uncertain 
as to how units of the Jordanian army in the area would react - some might 
ecide that the Israelis and not the Syrians constituted the greater threat 
oreover, Brown continued, the consequences of an Israeli invasion would 
be dangerous and unpredictable; even if the Israeli operation were limited in 
scope, its aftermath would strain [the] King’s personal standing with [his] 


‘SEVEN QUESTIONS OF ISRAEL’ 


153 


subjects and fellow Arabs. Israel’s action would confirm in Arab eyes [the] 
libel s P read by radicals for twenty years that [the] Jordanian Monarchy [is] 
crypto-Zionist at heart.’ 86 Brown stressed that the best possible outcome from 
the US point of view would be if Hussein could, ‘basically on his own 
make his way to shore’. 

Brown was also sceptical about the Israelis’ motivations for preferring a 
strike into Jordan rather than Syria. The Israelis ‘may have their own reasons 
tor preferring a Jordan target to a Syrian one’, he wrote. The King’s desire was 
to see the Syrians ‘so hurt that they will withdraw’. The Israeli desire, on the 
other hand, ‘may be broader: to so smash the Syrians that they won’t rise 
again for a long time. If this is indeed [the] Israeli aim I can see why they are 
massing for [a] grand attack at Irbid where [the] Syrians are stupidly open to 
real defeat. If [the] aim, on the other hand, is to give help to Hussein, then 
eit er [a] feint or short attack into [the] much easier country north of 
Tiberias would have [the] same effect without side dangers here.’ 

Despite his scepticism, Brown followed up on the question of Israeli 
intervention with Zeid Rifai later in the afternoon, with the aim of pinning 
down more precisely what the King wanted, a goal in which he was not 
assisted by the limitations of an open phone line; as Brown put it, the two 
men had to use ‘double talk all the way’ to communicate. According to 
Brown s account, Rifai agreed that the question of Israeli intervention would 
have to be discussed in a face-to-face meeting with the Israelis, and repeated 
that if Israeli ground action were to take place this should be ‘elsewhere than 

Jordan’. 87 He reiterated this position several hours later after discussing it 
with the King. 88 

Meanwhile, the Israeli cabinet was meeting in a five-hour session to 
consider the same question. The positions of the main players seem to have 
remained unchanged. A British report of the discussion based on sources 
close to Prime Minister Meir noted that ‘no decision was taken other than to 
keep options open’. Moshe Dayan among others remained ‘reluctant to 
intervene in present circumstances on the ground that Israel’s security was 
not threatened and that there was no reason why she should risk incurring 
international odium by intervening on King Hussein’s behalf. The British 
report also cautioned that ‘this may of course be a smokescreen to cover some 
more positive planning’. 89 The suspicion remained that one of the reasons for 
the redeployment of Israeli forces to the north was ‘to ensure that if Jordan is 
carved up, Israel gets a slice’. 90 

Other Israeli sources agree that Dayan was reluctant to intervene purely to 
save Hussein. 91 Indeed, he stated publicly on Israeli television on 23 
September: ‘We will not mourn if Hussein is replaced by someone willing to 
make peace with us.’ 92 As the British had suspected, Dayan believed that if 
action were to be taken its goal should be to take and hold a large slice of 


154 


KING HUSSEIN OF JORDAN 


Jordanian territory. ‘If we go into Irbid,’ Dayan argued in the Israeli security 
forum debate on 21 September, ‘it will be difficult for us just to return it.’ 93 
The divisions within the Israeli leadership were summarised by General 
Mordechai Gur, the commander responsible for the Syrian-Lebanese front 
during the crisis: 

One opinion backed the strengthening of Hussein’s position and the 
continuation of his rule. They felt that Israel’s bond with the 
Hashemite Kingdom was better than that with any other Arab country 
and that the Six Day War was a tactical error on the part of Hussein. It 
was impermissible to damage the positive relationship between the 
two countries, and in the future Hussein would be Israel’s best peace 
partner. 

• The opposing opinion supported the transformation of Jordan into a 
Palestinian state. The extremists in this perspective recommended that 
Israel offer practical assistance, in different ways, to realize the 
ambitions of the Palestinians in Jordan. Yasser Arafat’s declaration of 
independence in Irbid strengthened the hands of those who held this 
opinion. They suggested allowing the guerrillas to achieve their aims 
and to take control over all of Jordan. In this they saw the ideal 
solution to the issue of the Palestinians. 94 

How the Israelis would have reacted if the Syrians had broken through 
towards Amman remains unknown, because, during the course of 22 and 23 
September, Jordanian air and ground forces succeeded in driving back the 
Syrian armoured incursion. 93 The only significant role Israel played in this 
process was an indirect one, in the form of the supply of IDF intelligence 
information to Hussein about the retreat of Syrian forces via the Bill Speares 
communication link. 96 At the same time as the Jordanian forces were gaining 
the upper hand against the Syrians, concerns about the movement of Iraqi 
forces in Jordan surfaced once again. Communicating via the British and 
Americans, the King asked that the information he had about Iraqi 
movements be passed on to the Israelis, perhaps with a view to gathering their 
own intelligence estimate. 97 To judge by British reports, though, the Israelis 
seem to have been as puzzled as all of the other players about Iraqi intentions 
during the crisis. 98 Hussein later speculated that Iraqi intervention had not 
come about because the regime in Baghdad viewed its own army units with 
suspicion, fearing that if they acted successfully in support of the fedayeen in 
Jordan, they might be encouraged to take similar direct action against their 
own government on their return home. 99 

Although it was not clear to Hussein at the time, with the retreat of Syrian 
forces on 23 September the crisis had passed its point of maximum danger. 


‘SEVEN QUESTIONS OF ISRAEL’ 


155 


For all the manoeuvring of the Americans and Israelis in the background, the 
fact remains that the victory on the battlefield was won by Hussein’s own 
troops. Indeed, as if to underline the point, IDF sources were ‘very impressed 
with [the] fighting quality and achievements of [the] Jordan Army’, and 
expressed unqualified praise for their conduct of operations against [the] 
Syrians . 10 ° On the morning of 23 September, Hussein also received a 
personal message from President Nixon, who expressed his admiration for 
‘what you are doing to preserve Jordan’s integrity in the face of both internal 
and external threats . . . Your courageous stand has impressed the entire free 
world. Just as Nixon and Kissinger had misread Syrian reasons for 
invading, they also misread Syrian reasons for withdrawal, crediting Israel for 
helping the US to achieve a Cold War victory in what was in fact a local inter- 
Arab struggle. 102 

Nevertheless, if the tactics used to turn back the Syrians had been 
successful, those used to clear the fedayeen from Amman were far less 
effective, and brought down on Hussein’s head a great deal of opprobrium in 
the Arab world. As the fighting in and around Amman continued, Libya cut 
off financial support and diplomatic relations. Meanwhile, President 
Numeiry of Sudan strove to broker a ceasefire, meeting the beleaguered 
Arafat in Amman on 24 September. The following day Arafat broadcast his 
acceptance of Numeiry’s ceasefire terms, and thereafter flew to Cairo where 
he met with Nasser in preparation for a summit of Arab heads of state, which 
the Egyptian president called for 27 September. 

Hussein s decision to fly to Cairo for the meeting was undoubtedly 
courageous in view of the extent of his isolation in the Arab world. Whether 
it was sound politics is another matter. With no allies around the conference 
table in the Hilton Hotel in Cairo, he was forced to accept an agreement 
brokered by Nasser whose terms appeared much more favourable to Arafat 
and the fedayeen. Restrictions were placed on the movements of both the 
fedayeen and the army in Amman, while the agreement also called for the 
stabilisation of the military situation along the lines prevailing when the cease- 
fire had been called. A Truce Supervisory Commission under the leadership of 
the Tunisian Prime Minister Bahi Ladgham was established to ensure the 
compliance of both parties with the terms of the agreement. CIA analysts 
described the Cairo agreement as no more than a stopgap measure. 103 

To some extent this description was accurate, although not in the sense 
originally envisaged. The day after brokering the deal, Nasser died of a heart 
attack. Although in his final years the Egyptian president had been more 
cooperative with Hussein’s regime, his role as sponsor of Arafat’s Fatah 
movement within the PLO had given him a strong vested interest during the 
September crisis, and there is little doubt that his death weakened Arafat’s 
position. At the very least it left a vacuum in leadership in the Arab world, 


156 


KING HUSSEIN OF JORDAN 


meaning that Hussein was unlikely to have to contend once again with the 
sort of united opposition he had faced at the Cairo summit. 104 

Concern about the likely course of events in the wake of Nasser's death was 
clearly signalled in two letters Hussein received at this stage from members of 
the Soviet collective leadership: one from President Podgorny, and the other 
from Prime Minister Kosygin. While Kosygin praised Nasser’s role in 
brokering the Cairo agreement, and dwelt on the threat now posed by 
imperialist, especially US, intervention in Arab affairs, Podgorny adopted a 
more hectoring tone, warning that the struggle between the Palestine 
liberation movement and the Jordanian regime must stop since it only served 
the interests of the imperialists and Israel. 105 

These Soviet rebukes had little effect. The King signalled his determination 
to restore his authority a month after the Cairo agreement with his decision 
to reappoint Wash Tall as prime minister on 28 October. As a firm believer 
in law and order, there is little doubt that Tall intended from the outset to 
crack down on fedayeen activity within the kingdom. However, he 
approached his task with some skill, protesting publicly that he sought 
partnership with the mainstream Fatah faction, while warning that there were 
certain elements within the PLO which did not intend to honour their 
agreement with the government. 106 Tall moved to exploit the differences 
within the PLO and by stages over the coming months pressed them out of 
the town centres and away from major lines of communication. By May 1971, 
the fedayeen had been driven back to the remote, wooded areas in the north- 
west of the country around Ajloun and Jerash. On 2 June, Hussein sent a 
message to Tall praising him for the measures he had taken to ‘safeguard the 
homeland’ and warning that ‘if there is in our soil today a handful of people 
who make plotting their profession and treachery their vocation . . . then we 
wish our opposition to them to be firm, decisive and valiant, allowing no 
room for hesitation, tolerance or compromise’. In his reply, Tall promised 
that ‘we shall . . . purge the ranks - all the ranks - of those professional 
criminals who pose as fedayeen’. 107 

On the morning of 13 July 1971 the final onslaught against the fedayeen 
was launched. Most of the fedayeen in the Jerash-Ajloun area were either 
captured or killed by the army, while the rest fled to Syria or Israel. Taking full 
responsibility for the action in a news conference on 19 July, Tall explained 
that the presence of the fedayeen around Jerash and Ajloun meant that this 
had become ‘an occupied area subject to the harshest conditions of evil and 
terror’, a situation which the government could no longer tolerate. 108 There is 
some doubt as to whether Tall ordered the final assault himself, or whether 
the initiative came from within the army high command, but whatever its 
provenance, there is little doubt that the move won the approval of the King 
himself and the vast majority of the East Bank political establishment. 109 


‘SEVEN QUESTIONS OF ISRAEL’ 


157 


Tall was to pay the highest personal price for his actions. During a visit to 
Cairo to attend a meeting of the Arab Defence Council at the end of 
November 1971 he was gunned down by members of the ‘Black September’ 
organisation, a group established to avenge the crackdown on the fedayeen. 
Tail’s death was a huge personal and political blow to Hussein. 110 
Nevertheless, by the autumn of 1971 the King had completely re-established 
his authority within Jordan, although he remained isolated in the Arab world. 
How did the King himself view the confrontation with the fedayeen? He 
frequently described the showdown as a tragedy, an unwanted confrontation 
between brothers who should have been allied in the struggle against Israel. 
But perhaps his most telling description of the September crisis came in a 
conversation with the British ambassador in Amman immediately afterwards. 
It was, he insisted, ‘a cancer operation that had to be performed to save 
Jordan’s life’. 111 



