
http://www.cnn.com/WORLD/meast/9902/07/king.hussein.obit/
	Hussein's grandfather, King Abdullah, ruled Jordan from its inception in 1920 until his assassination -- at the Al Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem -- in 1951. 

	 A Palestinian extremist, fearing the king might negotiate a peace with the newly created state of Israel, opened fire on Abdullah and his grandson on July 20 of that year as the pair walked into the mosque for Friday prayers. Abdullah was killed, but the 15-year-old Hussein pursued the gunman. 


kindof reminds me of the reason the Black Hand assassinated Archduke Ferdinand. I guess somebody didn't want peace between Jordan and Israel.


	 The assailant turned his weapon on the young prince, who was saved when the bullet was deflected by a medal on his uniform given to him by his grandfather.


This could have given King Hussein an anti-Palestinian bias early on, although he doesn't come off that way in his later writings/interviews.


	 At the time, Crown Prince Talal, Hussein's father, was undergoing treatment for schizophrenia in a Swiss mental hospital. He was returned to Jordan and crowned king, a position he held until the Jordanian parliament forced his abdication a year later.


after assassination, Hussein's grandfather was replaced with someone crazy.


	With his father's abdication, Hussein was named king of Jordan at the age of 17, although a Regency Council ruled for him while he completed his education in Britain. On May 2, 1953, he assumed full constitutional powers when he turned 18 by the Islamic calendar. 


	...Hussein had inherited an economy with few natural resources and a populace that had just absorbed a large number of displaced Palestinians following the 1948 creation of the state of Israel.

	The early years of Hussein's rule were an almost literal trial by fire. In 1956, with Arab nationalism on the rise, he sacked his British-born military commander Sir John Bagot Glubb, replacing him and the other senior British officers with Jordanians to quiet criticism that he was overly influenced by the former colonial ruler.


This could have given him a pro-Western bias early on. He seemed cognizant of the Israel/West and Palestinian/Middle East balancing act he had to play. If the Okhrana were trying to get to his head I would guess they wanted him to be a pro-West anti-Palestinian prop. It looks like an attempt at this happened in black september.

	...A year later, the young monarch foiled an attempted coup -- fueled by Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser's pan-Arabic politics -- by personally appealing to the troops.

	But in 1958, the Iraqi military overthrew and killed Hussein's cousin King Feisal. That coup ended a budding federation between Jordan and Iraq, a potential political counterweight to Egypt and Syria. And then pro-Nasser sympathizers in Jordan organized another coup attempt, stopped only by the arrival of British and American troops. 


fended off multiple coups and assassination attempts from the PLO/Nasser/"pan-Arab" camp, but for whatever reason none of them worked. Did a pro-Western coup ever happen?

One guess is that someone wanted him to have an anti-palestinian bias. Would figure that if someone really wanted him dead they could do it. Like Nasser died in a weird way the day after writing a peace agreement for palestinians.

I guess if he tipped too much to one side or the other, he could be assassinated with it blamed on the other side. But instead Hussein "walked the tight-rope."

Having a coup attempt under Palestinian flag stopped with Western help would be a propaganda win for Okhrana, so maybe they saw him as useful in that way since he agreed to this at least once.


	...Finally, Hussein had had enough. In September 1970 -- the month Palestinian radicals would come to call Black September -- the 34-year-old monarch ordered his army to drive the PLO out of the country. Syrian troops came to the aid of the Palestinians, while Israeli soldiers massed across the border.

	When the fighting finally ended, the Palestinian radicals had lost. And although Hussein remained popular at home, the Arab world largely isolated him throughout most of the 1970s.

	In 1974, Arab leaders declared the PLO "the sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people," taking away Hussein's role as spokesman for the West Bank's Palestinians.

	And in 1978, he was excluded from the Camp David summit between U.S. President Jimmy Carter, Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin. A year later, he denounced the accords in a speech to the United Nations General Assembly. 


Was ostracized from Arab world after Black September, PLO considered spokespeople for West Bank Palestinians instead of him.

Didn't Nasser encourage him to do it? It's kindof weird.

What did they actually want out of Black September? did they expect regime change?



------



http://www.cnn.com/WORLD/meast/9902/07/king.hussein.obit/
	Hussein always walked a tightrope between his Middle Eastern neighbors and Western powers.

	"He's between Israel on one side, Iraq and Syria on the other," former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger said. "He knows that the Palestinians have tried to overthrow him on a number of occasions, so he has to navigate with extraordinary delicacy."

	His balancing act never stopped the succession of coup and assassination attempts. The plots have been so common, Hussein wrote in his memoirs, "that sometimes I have felt like the central character in a detective novel."

	..."By the way, many in our part of the world, in different parts of the world have written me off," he said during a recent interview. "But I have a lot of faith in God and I believe one lives one's destiny." 


From "Israel and Palestine" pg 341

	A.S.: Finally, you have been dealing with Israel for over 40 years. Do you have a concluding comment on Israel as a neighbour?

	K.H.: I believe that there is so much potential for benefits that would result from our coming together. The descendants of the children of Abraham in that region had such an impacton the world and on mankind. There is so much that we achieved together in the past in terms of history, in Spain and elshwere, and within the region itself. And I think there is so much that could be achieved and could be done. The talents and abilities of peoples coming together should be channelled to do something worthwhile and worty of them. Now against that, we have the few, but unfortunately effective, people who are against this vision and against this dream on either side of the Arab-Israeli divide. I felt that the divide had changed it wasn't Israel and Jordan. I twas those who believed in peace, and believed in the future, and those who are opposted to it. So we have opponents here and there.


Did Hussein know what was going on? He noticed a lot of plots around him, "the world" "writing him off," and saw the conflict he was in not as Jordan v. Israel but people who want peace v. people who don't. It sounds like he would have been a problem for them.



------


https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2018/01/08/jfk-files-cia-lined-up-actress-date-jordans-king-hussein-during-visit-united-states/1012904001/


this is interesting

CIA arranges for U.S. Jewish actress to "accompany" Hussein on visit to U.S.

Howard Hughes involed somehow


Hughes did sketchy things, involved with some Watergate conspirators I think

and that salvage mission of a Russian sub


	...Hussein's budding relationship with Cabot was well known at the time, and numerous news reports mentioned that the Jewish heritage of Cabot, born Harriet Shapiro, might cause a problem for the Muslim king. 

	"During the stay at the Long Beach site, [Cabot] discussed the publicity in the case at some length with the Security representatives," the CIA memo said. "She speculated about the possible sources of certain personal information that she felt had been leaked to the press."


relationship was well-known, discussed in press

probably didn't do Hussein many favors domestically


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Susan_Cabot


Cabot born to Russian family in U.S., said to have had mental health problems in later years, died under unusual circumstances. Nothing else unusual in wiki page.


person who was assigned to "procure" women for Hussein also involved in Castro assassination plots.

Seems like some overlap in people involved in Watergate, trying to kill Castro and setting up Hussein with Cabot. CIA not doing themselves any favors here. 


http://russianheritagemuseum.com/en/RHM_Susan_Cabot/


Cabot sad life, in foster homes a lot as kid. This article says her son was with Miceal Roman, others incinuate she had love child with King Hussein.



https://nypost.com/2018/01/09/cia-had-a-hand-in-king-husseins-affair-with-actress-that-resulted-in-love-child/
	But Cabot gave birth to her only child, Timothy — long been rumored to be Hussein’s son — in 1964.

	When Cabot was found fatally bludgeoned in 1986 and Timothy went on trial for her death, one of his lawyers wrote in court papers that there were signs pointing to Hussein as his father.

	“For as long as I can discover, [Cabot] received a regular sum of $1,500 a month from the Keeper of the King’s Purse, Amman, Jordan,” lawyer Chester Leo Smith wrote, according to the Los Angeles Times in 1989.

	“For better or worse, it looks like child support,’’ the lawyer said.

	Cabot had been found murdered in her bedroom at her Encino, Calif., home Dec. 10, 1986. She was 59.

	Timothy, 22, who lived with her, initially told cops that a tall Latino burglar dressed like a “Japanese Ninja’’ warrior had broken into the home before his mother’s murder, according to the Times.

	But cops said Timothy beat her to death with a weight-lifting bar during an argument.


wtf is going on


https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/jfk-files-reveal-that-cia-urged-hollywood-actress-to-sleep-with-king-hussein-of-jordan-f30wmfb03
	Susan Cabot was killed by her son in 1986. It was long suspected that King Hussein of Jordan was his father


probably a rabbit hole, but timing maybe worth looking into.

would guess Okhrana didn't like Hussein and they could try things to mess with him or smear him.

Send ninja to kill his ex-girlfriend and blame it on someone they blamed on being his son? sure


------

https://www.history.ac.uk/ihr/Focus/cold/articles/ashton.html


says Hussein opposed to communism and Soviets, Kruschev didn't like him and walked out on his speech.


guess Kruschev would want Hussein to be angry, if at all possible make him irrationally opposed to Soviets.


------


http://www.nytimes.com/1997/10/15/world/the-daring-attack-that-blew-up-in-israel-s-face.html


Hussein seemed to try to resolve conflicts--Mossad poisoned a Hamas guy in Jordan, captures, then says will release in prisoner swap if Israel gives antidote.


http://www.cnn.com/WORLD/meast/9902/07/king.hussein.obit/
	A king turned peacemaker and philosopher, Hussein bin Talal will be remembered as a man who matured with his country, and helped foster peace in a region torn by conflict. 
