

misc. notes from Chapter  10


Shlaim says Hussein agreeing to formation of PLO a mistake. Hussein was happy about it at first, saw as a compromise (versus creating independent palestinian state) but Slhaim says it was Nasser's idea and ended up being an instrument of Egyptian foreign policy.

If remember right around this time also says Nasser raproached with Hussein, and Hussein accepted. Nasser also tried to convince Hussein to accept Soviet arms.

Get a sense that Nasser, others in his camp where trying to get Hussein on their side around this time.

This tidbit is interesting (pg 172 on bootleg version):

	...Containing the PLO replaced economic development as the dominant issue for the rest of Tall's second term. From the beginning he had been opposed to the creation of the PLO, predicting that it would be too weak to mount a serious challenge to Israel and that it would end up by making peace. He also suspected that Nasser had originally sponsored the PLOT not in order to fight for the liberation of Palestine but in order to saddle it with the responsibility for settling the dispute with Israel. In his more paranoid moods, Tall even spoke of Israel and America as being the evil spirits behind the invention of the PLO. He was certainly in no doubt that the new organization and its leader posed a serious threat to the survival of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.

	The foreign minister at that time was Dr Hazem Nusseibeh, a Princeton-educated member of a prominent Palestinian family from Jerusale. Nusseibeh put forward a proposal for giving the West Bank a limited degree of autonomy and changing the name of the country from "The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan" to "The United Kingdom of Palestine and Jordan". He wrote a White Paper on the relations between Jordan and the nascent Palestinian organization, and included this idea in it. Nusseibeh believed that the alternative name he suggested could remove the dichotomy and allow the Palestinians to feel included. By allowing the Palestinians to choose their own representative,s he wanted to forestall more radical demands. The king was quite agreeable to the idea after listening attentively to the reasoning behind it. Wasfi Tall, on the other hand, spoke forcefully against it. He feared that it would create friction and lead to divided lyalties among Jordanians and Palestinians. Tall won the argument, as usual. In retrospect, Nusseibeh regretted that his proposal was not adopted because he believed it would have made unnecessary the role that the PLO later assumed, that of being the sole legitimage representative of the Palestinian people. 


Tall sketchy, shot down idea that would have helped PLO-Jordan conflict and blamed the PLO on jews even though Arafat and Haddad were KGB agents (I think not known until Mitrokhin archives released?)


------


Chapter 10 pg 173

	The breakdown of the negotiations encouraged militant Palestinians to take direct action against Israel in defiance of the authority of the Jordanian government. Al-Fatah, a militant clandestine group formed by Yasser Arafat and others, advocated a guerrilla war to liberate Palestine. Its general strategy was to drag the Arab states into war with Israel by stoking up the fire along the borders. From Jordanian territory al-Fatah mounted a series of rather ineffectual sabotage operations indie Israel. Israel retaliated against these hit-and-run raids with severe military reprisals against Jordanian targets along the border, which prompted the Jordanian government to step up its efforts to prevent the incursions. Its security services carried out arrests of activists, confiscated small arms and explosives, and rounded up Fatah cells on the West Bank.


Fatah formed before six day war. They wanted to "drag Arab states into a war with Israel" and attacks from Jordan also might have had an effect of splitting Palestinians and Israelis while forcing Hussein to pick a side in a way (or look like it, if he cracks down he could come off as pro-Israel and anti-Palestine to some). These are the same things KGB agents were doing in Jordan, and Arafat himself had relations with the KGB--maybe Fatah another front organization?


------


Chapter 12

sounds like Jordan army got hit harder than most after 6 day war

after war Hussein was in alliance with Nasser

Hussein wanted back West Bank and East Jerusalem


------


Chapter 14


Fedayeen, I guess along with Nasser's "war of attrition" and policy of "that which was taken by force can only be returned by force" keep attacking Israel from Jordan borders, Israel keeps blaming Jordan, Hussein trying to balance or explain things to Israel.


	...the conduct of the armed struggle against the Zionist enemy gave Palestinian nationalism a symbol i the shape of the fighting Palestinian; it enhanced the legitimacy of the PLO; and it enabled the PLO to build up its political, economic and social institutions. Armed struggle and state-building went hand in hand: one reinforced the other. Inside their own camps, the fedayeen groups enjoyed considerable administrative autonomy, had their own finance departments and ran their own welfare services. Outside the camps, they enjoyed freedom of movement and special rights, while exercising growing influence over the Jordanian part of the population. By the beginning of 1970 the Palestinian resistance movement had to all intents and purposes established a state within a state in Jordan.


so this is setup for civil war

goes on to say Fatah most moderate of the guerilla organizations, however:

	...The precept of non-intervention, however, was not observed by the more radical guerilla organizations such as the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), led by Dr George Habash, or by the Popular Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PDFLP), led by Nayef Hawatmeh. Nor was it observed by the more marginal but no less radical Al-Saiqa ('the storm'), which was a wing of the Syrian Ba'th Party, or the Arab Liberation Front, which was a wing of the Iraqi Ba'th Party. Hussein was seen by all these groups as 'a reactionary', 'a puppet of Western imperlialaism' and 'a Zionist tool'; a confrontation with him was therefore regarded not only as desirable but as ideologically necessary. By the beginning of 1970 Habash and Hawatmeh were openly calling for the overthrow of the Jordanian monarchy and its replacement by a revolutionary regime.


by 1970, marxist organizations set their sights on Hussein

goes on to say Fedayeen driving around with guns, ignoring stop signs and extorting people

	...The arrogance and the indiscipline of the fedayeen placed Hussein in an acute dilemma. If he used force to crush them, he would alienate his Palestinian subjects and the Arab would. Yet if he failed to act against them, he would forfeit the respect of his Jordanian subjects and, even more seriously, that of the army, the mainstay of his regime. The dilemma was not eased by pressure from the army to confront the fedayeen challenge to the regime head-on. In February 1970 Hussein went to Cairo to see Nasser and won his support, or at least his acquiescence, in a tougher policy in dealing with the fedayeen. Nasser was prepare d to use his influence with the fedayeen to get them to reduce their pressure on the regime, provided Hussein restrained his army from openly clashing with them.


Fedayeen knocking people over, walking around like they own the place put Hussein into similar dillema to PLO-types launching rockets at Israel from Jordan. Either attack them, crack down and potentially alienate palestinian citizens of Jordan, or do nothing and lose legitimacy.

Does seem like bait to get him to crack down--goes with "western press" questioning Hussein's legitimacy around this time.

Nasser and Hussein apparently agreed to not quite a crackdown but some kind of restrictions on Fedayeen:


	Immediately after Hussein's return from Cairo, the Jordanian government issued new regulations that required the fedayeen to carry identity cards and to license their cars, like everybody else. The new regulations also prohibited the carring of arms in public, the storing of ammunition in towns, and the holding of unlawful meetings and demonstrations. The fedayeen reacted sharply and violently to this, and forced Hussein to climb down and 'freeze' the new regulations. He also yeilded to fedayeen pressure by dismissing the hardline minister of the interior, Major-General Muhammad Rasul al-Kilani.


Hussein had some dumb ideas after meeting with Nasser. Issues monarch decree violating fedayeen rights to bear arms and assemble, and fedayeen are pissed. Then Hussein shows weakness after this, backing down and making odd concession of dismissing minister of interior and replacing with one they like.

Did Nasser encourage Hussein to do this? It seems odd, like it would be better first to try talking to them, and if Hussein really believed Nasser had his back he would have a good angle there.

Shlaim says got Nasser's "support or at least acquiescence," so sounds like not sure what actually happened in Cairo.

This looks like first major dumb decision by Hussein in dealing with Black September or prelude to it.


	Western newspapers now started to carry stories saying that Hussein might abdicate soon, as he was gradually losing control over his kingdom. These reports, however, were based more on rumor than on fact. Far from thinking about abdication, Hussein was preparing for the next round, which he regarded as inescapable. His concessions to the fedayeen were a tactical move designed to gain time, rather than an admission of defeat. It was reculer pour meix sauter. Morever, in line with his perennial policy of balancing, he bagan to mobilize external support to help him in his battle against his internal opponents. The two countries he turned to were the United States and Israel. Both had their drawbacks as allies. News that the ruler of Jordan was turning to America and ISrael for help against fellow Arabs would have provided powerful ammunition to his enemies and enabled them to drive home the charges that he was 'a puppet of Western imperialism' and a 'Zionist tool'. But he had no other options.


"western newspapers" call into question Hussein's legitimacy after his acquiescence. If not something to get under Hussein's skin, could be one of those things were if you convince people its inevitable its more likely to happen (e.g. memes that "war is inevitable" before WW1). Should read these, thinking it could amplify the effect of Hussein caving.

Hussein going to the U.S. and Israle for support for an "internal problem" seems like a bad idea? I guess it planted to seeds for what looked like an almost wider war--by the end of black September have Israeli jets flying over Syrian tanks, U.S. battleships next to Soviet battleships.


actually Hussein's message to Israel seems almost reasonable:

	On 17 February the US deputy cheif of mission in Tel Aviv, Owen Zurhellen, conveyed an urgent message from Hussein to Foreign Minister Abba Eban. In this message the king put three questions:

		1. Does Israel agree to avoid taking advantage of the opportunity of Hussein having to thin down his forces on the border to deal with subversive elements at home?

		2. Can Israel agree to avoid responding to provocations by the terrorists, who will try to carry out attacks while Jordanian forces are being thinned down, with the purpose of drawing Israel into retaliatory actions?

		3. Can Hussein count on Israeli forces to assist him should the forces of neighboring countries come to the aid of the Palestinian terrorists while he tries to knock them out?



First two make sense, like it would make Israel look like shit if they tried anything. But last one he's basically siding with Israel before the conflict even begins. And this plays into exactly what Al-Fatah said what they wanted to do, drag arab nations into war with Israel.


After this, Israel and Jordan continued having skirmishes firing into each others territory, Jordan "shelled Tiberias for the first time since 1948."

Was Hussein worried about a pre-emptive Israeli invasion? if fedayeen became too powerful and Jordan couldn't handle it, Israel could invade on their own. They were already basically doing that with strikes against people launching rockets, and battle of Karmeh.

Hussein sent a message to Israel saying "Jordanian Government was doing everything it could to prevent fedayeen rocket attacks on Israel. King deeply regretted rocket attacks. Jordan Army under orders to shoot to kill any fedayeen attempting to fire rockets and fedayeen leaders had been told again evening of June 3 that violators would be shot on sight.'

	...The Israelis decided to give the king what he wanted. It was true that Hussein had made similar protestations in the past about controlling the fedayeen, but the strength of his language on this occasion impressed them. Nor did they place any time limit on the truce. The important thing was to see if he could make his intentions effective.


Maybe could argue these rocket attacks even more important for setting up black september than Dawson Feild Hijackings.

Basically, terrorists take over part of Jordan and use it as a base to launch attacks against Israel, Jordan has trouble handling it and Israel incurring on Jordan.

So this is forcing conflict between PLO and Israel to heat up, and Jordan is the battleground. And last time this happened was a disaster, battle of Karmeh grew the PLO even more while they tried to undermine Jordan regime.


https://books.google.com/books?id=ODHHZwr_aTQC&pg=PA272&lpg=PA272&dq=king+hussein+worried+invasion+Israel&source=bl&ots=fUc3diZi4u&sig=19OMXhB1_kigCF7721Ltv9s0jHk&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwj_gcP0rPzYAhXQzlMKHaP8CvQ4ChDoAQgsMAE#v=onepage&q=king%20hussein%20worried%20invasion%20Israel&f=false

this says U.S. thought that fall of Hussein would lead to "invasion by Israel, Egypt, or Syria."


What would have happened if Hussein didn't stop the fedayeen then and there? If conflict boiled over into open or sustained war between PLO and Israel, other countries (Nasser-aligned) would have impetus to invade too and fight Israel on behalf of PLO--Egypt basically already doing that I guess. And if war breaks out in Jordan between Israel and Arab nations, with PLO having significant domestic support already, Jordan would only be further destablized and Hussein could be gone.

So a growing conflict between PLO and Israel could mean end of Hussein's regime, and that would give him reasons to try to end the conflict himself.

And even that was risky and Hussein knew it (asking ahead of time for Israeli support if other nations invaded on behalf of fedayeen).

By this time, even before Dawson's field hijackings, Hussein was thinking of stopping fedayeen and made I guess a promise of this to Israel.

For "next seven months" after "February incident" Israel counter-attacks were killing Jordan civilians too. Israel response to Hussein's second request was "in case of terrorist provactions on the Jordanian border, Israel will respond vigously." Did Israel government contribute to the start of the civil war too?



	...Difficulties assailed Hussein from all directions. While straining to prevent the fedayeen from provoking Israel, he also had to restrain the army from settling scores with them. After the IDF had drive the fedayeen out of the Jordan Valley, they moved into the cities and instituted what can only be described as a reign of terror. Army bases were located outside the cities, but many of the serving soldiers had their families in urban areas. Their patience was strained beyond endurance by the lawlessness of the fedayeen, by the liberties they took in a country that was not theirs and by their mistreatment of civilians. Increasingly, army commanders began to take the law into their own hands. By the early summer it became apparent that, if Hussein did not act, the military would rebel against him because they could not take any more humiliation from the fedayeen. After one incident, a tank battalion moved from the valley to Amman with no orders to do so and it took Sharif Zaid bin Shaker, the commander of the Third Armoured Division, and the king to stop its onslaught on the perpetrators. Hussein and Shaker drove out and intercepted the tanks.


So after Hussein makes promise he can deal with it to Israel and they say wait and see, fedayeen goes into town and starts pissing off the army. The army can't handle it and starts almost attacking them on their own.


Hussein says:

	...We had thousands of incidents of breaking the law, of attacking people. It was a very unruly state of affairs in the country and I continued to try. I went to Egypt. I called in the Arabs to help in any way they could--particularly as some of them were sponsoring some of these movements in one form or another--but without much success, and towards the end I felt I was losing control. In the last six months leading up to the crisis the army began to rebel. I had to spend most of my time running to these units that had left their positions and were going to the capital, or to some other part of Jordan, to sort out people who were attacking their families or attacking their soldiers on leave. I think that the gamble was probably the army would fracture along Palestinian-Jordanian lines. That never happened, thank God.


fedayeen was attacking army families and people on leave (were they trying to piss them off?), the army kept wanting to escalate and Hussein was worried about a coup and felt like he was losing control.

fighting between army and fedayeen broke out June 7, fedayeen shot government intel HQ June 9, attempts on Hussein's life around this time.

There were three days of fighting, but Husseign "drew back" and him and Arafat announced a ceasfire. The PFLP ignored the ceasfire and held sixty-eight hostages in hotels and threatened to blow them up unless army officers Sharif Nasser bin Jamil and Sharif Zaid bin Shaker were dismissed and Special Forces paratroopers disbanded. According to Shlaim, "Fear of losing ground in public opinion to the PFLP led Arafat to associate himself with these demands."

Hussein went along with it and dismissed his uncle and his cousin.


According to Shlaim:

	...The sacrifice of his uncle and his cousin was particularly painful because, like himself, they were pillars of the establishment and symbols of Hashemite rule in Jordan. Dr Henry Kissinger, President Nixon's national security adviser, had privately encouraged Hussein to crack down on the fedayeen. [18] In his memiors Kissinger wrote that 'by the Summer of 1970 the young, able, and courageous King was in grave peril. The guerillas, resentful of his efforts to promote a political settlement with Israel, increasingly challenged his army.'


maybe the PFLP hostage taking and demands were an earlier attempt to get Hussein to crack down? psycopath and Putin-buddy Henry Kissinger encouraged Hussein to crack down, and I guess they were trying to find his breaking point.


	For his favouritism towards the young king, Kissinger gave the following reasons: 'Hussein had always advocated moderation, resisted the radical tide, and avoided fashionable anti Western slogans. He was in difficulty because of his reluctance to permit the guerillas free rein. His collapse would radicalize the entire Middle East. Israel would not acquiesce in the establishment of guerilla bases all along its Jordanian frontier. Another Middle East war would be extremely likely. Thus, Jordan, in my view, was a test of our capacity to control events in the region.


Kissinger says Hussein's collapse would "radicalize the Middle East" and prompt Israeli intervention, war between Arab world and Israel again.
