https://archive.org/stream/TheWorldWasGoingOurWayTheKGBAndTheBattleForTheTheThirdWorld/The%20World%20Was%20Going%20Our%20Way_djvu.txt
	Within the 
Centre it was possible during the Andropov era to express 
much franker opinions about Third World problems - for 
example, about Soviet prospects in Egypt after the death 
of Nasser or economic collapse in Allende’s Chile— - 


KGB concerned about their prospects in Egypt after death of Nasser


	...Penetrating the inner circles of the mostly suspicious 
rulers of the Middle East was more difficult than 
penetrating their Moscow embassies and diplomatic 
ciphers. The KGB, none the less, had close links with the 
intelligence services of Gamal Abdel Nasser, the Soviet 
Union’s first major Middle Eastern ally. His main 
intelligence adviser, Sami Sharaf, was profuse in his 
protestations of gratitude and friendship to ‘Comrade 
Brezhnev’, and claimed to be convinced that, as the 
disciple of ‘the great leader, Gamal Abdel Nasser, he 
occupies a special position in relation to his Soviet 
friends’. 


KGB "close links" with intel services of Nasser. Intel "main adviser" gushes over Brezhnev


	...Moscow thus sought to base its strategy in the 
Middle East on alliance with one of the leading 
‘progressive’ Arab powers which, it was hoped, would 
progress gradually to Marxism-Leninism. Its main hopes 
from 1955 to 1970 were pinned on Nasser, by far the most 
charismatic Arab leader of the Cold War as well as ruler 
of the largest Middle Eastern state. During the halcyon 
years of Nasser’s special relationship with Moscow, he 
was one of the most eloquent advocates of the Soviet role 
in the Middle East. ‘[The Russians]’, he told an American 
interviewer in 1957, ‘helped us survive. Yes, and they 
helped us escape domination by the West.’— After 
Nasser’s sudden death in 1970, Moscow was never able to 
find an Arab ally of remotely equal stature. His successor, 
Sadat, expelled all Russian advisers and opted instead for 
a special relationship with the United States and peace 
with Israel.


"main hopes pinned" on Nasser. Nasser eloquent advocate for Soviets, maybe a propagandist.

Maybe something weird going on with Sadat?


	...During the Cold War, the KGB maintained secret links 
with, and channelled secret subsidies to, most if not all 
Middle Eastern Communist parties. None of these parties, 
however, possessed a popular charismatic leader to 
compare with Castro, Guevara, Allende or the leading 
Sandinistas, and all were liable to be sacrificed to Soviet 
strategic interests. In 1965, at a time when Moscow was 
pursuing its courtship of Nasser, the Egyptian Communist 
Party was persuaded to dissolve itself and tell its members 
to join the ruling Arab Socialist Union.— When 
Khrushchev made Nasser a Hero of the Soviet Union, one 
of his Presidium privately complained that he was 
honouring a leader who ‘drove Communists into 
concentration camps’.— In 1972 Moscow put pressure on 
a somewhat reluctant Iraqi Communist Party to reach an 
accommodation with the Ba‘th regime.


Nasser "hero of Soviet Union," communist party dissolved under him

Moscow kept "secret links" and gave funding to "most if not all" middle east Communist parties


	...Despite his hostility to the British, neither the Kremlin nor 
the Centre immediately warmed to Nasser. As 
Khrushchev later acknowledged: ‘We were inclined to 
think that Nasser’s coup was just another one of those 
military take-overs which we had become so accustomed 
to in South America. We didn’t expect much to come of 
it.’- Ivan Aleksandrovich Serov, who became KGB 
Chairman in 1954, knew so little about Egypt that he 
believed Egyptians were black Africans rather than Arabs. 
His Middle Eastern specialists appear to have been too 
embarrassed by his ignorance to point his error out to 
him.- 


Kruschev claims not paying attention to Egypt coup installing Nasser, Andrew goes along with it



	...Two months later, in December 1954, 
the youthful FCD high flier, Vadim Kirpichenko, arrived 
in Cairo as head of political intelligence with the principal 
ambition of penetrating Nasser’s entourage. He had an 
early success, though neither Kirpichenko ’s memoirs 
(unsurprisingly) nor the files noted by Mitrokhin reveal 
the identity of the individual involved. Kirpichenko 
identifies him only as ‘a firm friend [who] provided 
interesting information’, without making clear whether he 
was an agent or a confidential contact. Given that 
Nasser’s entourage was aware that the individual was 
sometimes in contact with Kirpichenko, it seems more 
likely that he was a confidential contact.


"Nasser's entourage" knew FCD head of political intellignece in Cairo was in contact with someone in his entourage, and Andrew concludes this means the contact must have been a "confidential contact" instead of an agent.

But you could also explain this by saying "Nasser's entourage" was already full of agents, or Nasser himself was already recruited by then...


Nasser made secret deal to buy arms from Soviets through Czechoslovakia


	...Two Soviet defectors, the 
KGB officer Vladimir Kuzichkin and the diplomat 
Vladimir Sakharov (a KGB co-optee), both Middle 
Eastern specialists, later identified Kirpichenko ’s 
confidential contact or agent as Sami Sharaf, a pot-bellied 
man with a drooping moustache and the flattering 
codename ASAD (‘Lion’) who in 1959, as Director of the 
President’s Office of Information, was to become 
Nasser’s chief intelligence adviser.- Kirpichenko insists 
that ‘Sami Sharaf was never our agent, and I did not even 
know him’.- He does, however, acknowledge that Sharaf 
was an ‘ardent supporter’ of Egyptian-Soviet friendship 
who, after Nasser’s death, had repeated unauthorized 
discussions of official business at the Soviet embassy- - 
the kind of man, in other words, whom the KGB would 
almost certainly have attempted to recruit as at least a 
‘confidential contact’.


Kirpichenko's contact eventually became Nasser's cheif intelligence adviser.

Two defectors say he was "never our agent" but an "ardent supporter" of Egyptian-Soviet "friendship"
