
http://www.bbc.com/news/world-middle-east-30099510
	The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) was formed as a resistance movement by the late George Habash after the occupation of the West Bank by Israel in 1967.

	Combining Arab nationalism with Marxist-Leninist ideology, the PFLP saw the destruction of Israel as integral to its struggle to remove Western capitalism from the Middle East.

	During the 1970s the group fostered links with militant groups across the world, including the German Baader Meinhof organisation and Japan's Red Army.

	Working with other groups, the PFLP pioneered aircraft hijackings as a high-profile means of drawing attention to their movement, most notably with the capture of an Air France plane in 1976.

	The plane was flown to Entebbe in Uganda where, after a stand-off, Israel launched a dramatic commando raid to rescue nearly 100 hostages.

	During the 1970s, the PFLP was the second largest faction in the Palestine Liberation Organisation (PLO), but pursued a markedly different strategy to Yasser Arafat's dominant Fatah organisation.

	While Fatah attempted to build support for the Palestinian cause from Arab countries, the PFLP became disillusioned with what it saw as inertia among Middle Eastern leaders. Instead, the PFLP enlisted backing from the USSR and China.


------

http://pflp.ps/english/strategy-for-the-liberation-of-palestine-forces-of-the-revolution-on-the-arab-level/
	The mobilisation and concentration of the revolutionary forces on the Palestinian level, even through a political organization adhering to and guide by scientific socialism, mobilising the downtrodden classes on the greatest scale and forming with the petit bourgeoisie a united front...


sounds commie to me


http://pflp.ps/english/2017/04/12/pflp-denounces-u-s-imperialist-aggression-against-syria/
	The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine denounces the U.S. imperialist aggression on Syria. This attack aims to pre-empt any serious international or impartial investigation into the events in Khan Sheikhun and instead acts to liquidate Syrian sovereignty and support the most reactionary, violent forces, exposing the falsity of the Trump administration’s claims that it wants to “fight terrorism.”

	The Front sees this aggression as taking place in full coordination with the Zionist entity and with those Arab reactionary parties that continue to insist on the entire dismantlement of the Syrian state;


radical ~~boehmian free-thinker~~ revolutionaries support the brutal authoritarian Assad regime? against the rebels fighting for freedom and democracy? ok...


http://pflp.ps/english/2015/12/30/pflp-in-gaza-welcomes-italian-solidarity-delegation-plans-increased-international-cooperation-to-support-palestine/

website at least seems very international, has links in a bunch of different languages


http://pflp.ps/english/2007/12/29/campaign-to-end-terrorist-designations/
	Campaign to end “terrorist” designations

	...This designation is illegitimate, and an attempt to use the legal system to criminalize and demonize the Palestinian cause. It is an attempt to silence our people in exile through the use of fear and intimidation. 


lol


http://pflp.ps/english/2015/03/21/fuad-in-russia-palestinians-are-ready-for-a-third-intifada/
	Fuad in Russia: Palestinians are ready for a third intifada

	Palestine is ready to stage a third uprising, or intifada, against the Israeli occupation, said Comrade Abu Ahmad Fuad, Deputy General Secretary of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, in Moscow on Friday, March 20.

	“A third intifada will certainly happen. The Palestinian people are ready for such an uprising…Most of the forces’ leaders think that we must exercise armed resistance within our capabilities,” Abu Ahmad Fouad, of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, said during a media conference held at the Rossiya Segodnya International Information Agency.

	Fuad spoke while visiting Russia, where he met with Russian deputy foreign minister Mikhail Bogdanov along with Comrade Maher al-Taher, member of the Political Bureau of the PFLP. In the meeting, the Front delegation emphasized that the so-called “peace process” is only a US-Zionist ploy aimed at buying time to expand settlements and cement control over the entire land of Palestine. “The Israeli election results make it clear that the Zionist state is moving only towards ever more extremism and racism,” said Fuad.

	Bogdanov expressed his support and the support of Russia for the Palestinian people’s struggle for their national rights, saying that Russia will support internal Palestinian dialogue for national unity and take a clear position in defense of Palestinian rights to freedom and self-determination in international bodies and mechanisms.

	The Front delegation is also scheduled to meet with Vitaly Naumkin, director of the Institute of Oriental Studies in Moscow, as well as a number of Russian political forces.


Russia still backing PFLP?


Also, they really don't like the Oslo agreement


------


http://pflp.ps/english/wpeng/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/PFLP-ExternalOperations-English.pdf


some book of propaganda trying to justify international terrorism

Their enemies ("global imperialism," "arab reactionaries") are vauge and could be anyone and they seem to believe conspiracy theories where Israel controls the world

	...And as for what is said about these strikes, that they hurt the reputation of the Palestinian revolution and antagonize European or American public opinion, this has no value. Why this concern for the opinion of the Western world, which for years and years turned a deaf ear to the international resolutions w hich have been taken to uphold Arab rights in Palestine? Since when has the Western world looked to the Palestinian revolution with respect and admiration? 

They either don't care about Western public opinion or want them to hate them. This is a convenient attitude if they want to split the Western and Islamic world.

It doesn't make much sense though if they actually care about their goals. If they wanted to stop "Western imperialism," wouldn't they want to turn U.S. public opinion against foreign wars and win them over? Instead they turn Western public opinion against them and make it easier for them to start their "imperialist wars."

	
	...It is very normal for the fighters of the Palestinian people inside the occupied homeland to focus their strikes on enemy targets and fighting the Israeli occupiers. And it is normal to move the Palestinian people and their combat units from outside these territories to en t er their occupied homeland, confront their enemies and strike them. The Palestinian people are not responsible for their dispersion and presence outside their homeland. And it is very natural for the strugglers of the Palestinian people to go to any country where they can confront the extensions of Israel outside occupie d Palestine, and wage war abroad to respond to the war launched against them by the Zionist i nstitutions from their multiple sites abroad. It is natural as well for the Palestinian resistance movement to embody its slogan of fighting imperialism and strike its interests within the Arab world, represented mainly by the petroleum corporations that produce massive financial profits at the expense of the hard ‐ working Arab people to benefit the ex ploiters wh o then return a large part of these profits to make napalm to burn children, elders and women of the Palestinian people and the Arab world. 


they are also conspiratorial

want to fight "Zionism" all over the world


	...Why die young like Abdul Mohsen Hassan Ali in the snow of Zurich Airport? Why does a young woman like Amina Dahbour expose herself to death or detention in the prisons of Switzerland? Why do Maher Yamani and Mahmo u d Issa expose themselves to death or imprisonment in detention in Greece? Why do Leila Khaled and Salim Issawi risk their lives in a daring operation to seize the American Trans World Airways plane? And last but not least, why would a youth like Khaled or Talaat or Wael or Adel face death or imprisonment in more than one European city? 


Serial killers also risk their lives

	
	In the wake of the accident in the Swiss plane in the air in February 1970, a new discussion broke out around the different aspects of external operations, and of course in these discussions some sought to “condemn” the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and its strategy rather than to objectively assess this important aspect of armed Palestinian resistance a ctivity.

	In one week, we have seen two articles on this subject, the first in Al ‐ Musawwer of Cairo, and the second in Al ‐ Hourriah of Beirut.


propagandists for them?


pg 8 has a list of horrible things they are doing

if their followers actually believe this propaganda, it might be possible that they don't think they are terrorists

pg 10 he's analyzing Lenin or something

pg 11 he likes Che and Mao seems very Communist

pg 14 "U.S. is main enemy"


	...Feudal and bourgeois capitalist ruling classes have been throughout the ages able to mobilize one part of the working class to hit the other part, without the trouble of th eir own e ngagement in battle and paying the price of their own blood. They engage in this role unreservedly and rush to the maximum extent of violence so long as the blood of the two pa rties does no t begin to impact their blood. But when the working class realizes this, and begins to strike them, they begin to think before engaging in any conflict. The role of US imperialism in the capitalist world today, is to use the batons of its collaborators to securely crush the head s of the revolutionary masses, or to be crushed. This is not important as long as the head of imperialism remains safe, and so long as American interests are kept safe from any threat. But once this interest is endangered, and when we see the side battles taking their real nature, the mai n en emy knows that their tactic has been exposed and that their sectarian or regional weapons are chained, and it will be forced to think twice before using its local pawns. This in fact reduces the likelihood of a side battle rather than increasing it, and it serves the in terest of the revolution to do so. 


Says should do terrorist attacks against "main enemy" U.S. b/c other countries are their pawns


article appears to be from the 70's



------


The PFLP did a post-mortem on failures after Black September, I guess because they didn't get a Communist revolution:


http://pflp.ps/english/tasks-of-the-new-stage-the-left-wing-of-the-resistance-movement/


The PFLP says some problems were:
- the "left wing" was not the actal leader of the resistance.
- Didn't work well enough with "right wing of the movement"
- some communist theoritical gibberish
- was distrated with other tasks and didn't build communist party
- They "failed to combine the necessities of the strategic position and the urgencies of the tactical position with regard to Egypt’s acceptance of the Rogers plan." (why do they care about this?)
- "Some of the left-wing contributed to misguiding the masses. It went along with the rightist propaganda campaigns when it began to issue military reports concerning what were then called big military operations and other forms of deceptive military demonstrations." (What does this mean?)
- "Some were mistaken in practice and in the evaluation of the consequences of these; such as the antagonistic and provocative challenge of the traditions and customs of the masses; and also the consequences – especially in terms of propaganda – that resulted from the hijacking of airplanes in September 1970. This allowed Jordanian reaction and imperialism to use this event to justify the massacre of September. Thus it attempted to cover up the real reason behind the reactionary regime’s move, i.e. the contradiction between the reactionary Jordanian regime and the resistance movement which was leading to inevitable collision." (trying to make excuses for the Dawson's field Hijackings? It does come off like they really wanted King Hussein to crack down and had to resort to this.)


	...We cannot, of course, be completely certain that if the resistance movement had a clear left-wing structure it would have been able, given the prevailing Arab and international conditions, to resolve completely in its favour the dual power situation present in Jordan before September 1970. But we can say that if the resistance differed in its structure its losses would have been less, its blows against the regime would have been more painful, the strength and support given to it by the masses would have been clearer, and given popular Palestinian, Jordanian and Arab support, it would have more easily continued its battle against the regime, eventually putting an end to it.


From this and other statements/actions by them, it seems pretty clear they wanted to overthrow the Jordan regime during Black September

later they say they went underground after Black September


	...This new American formulation was immediately linked with an appropriate explanation: the American interest in this problem is the result, as Nixon said in the same address, of fear that “extreme elements” may exploit the feelings of the Palestinian people with regard to the search for a homeland.

	American policy acknowledged, then, the Palestinian people, not in order to solve their problem, but to abort their cause. It chose this time precisely not only because some of the traditional Palestinian leadership has begun to move openly towards suspect solutions but also because the political indecisiveness and conciliatory mode of large sectors of the leadership of the resistance movement helps, in one way or another, towards the realization of the plans.


PFLP hard to pleaase when it comes to America recogizing plight of Palestinians

calls Jordan a "stooge regime" of U.S.--King Hussein asking for American help probably contributed to this propaganda. Is that something they wanted him to do? iirc he got stiffed by a lot of Arab neighbor countries, although Nasser at least acted like he wanted to help (but maybe gave bad advice). Guessing the KGB had a lot of influence in Middle Eastern Governments, but maybe not as much as they would have liked in Jordan.

	...These regimes are anxious to domesticate the resistance and subordinate it to their tactical needs; their behaviour towards the resistance stems always from their class nature, hence their fear of the organized masses, and of guiding the masses along the path of revolutionary violence.

	As the class contradiction grows within these regimes, their actions become increasingly reactionary, and the methods and the extent of their oppression of the rising class forces escalate. Inevitably this leads to the widening of the gap between them and the resistance.


Is this how they think? divide "resistance" and "reactionaries"

------

https://archive.org/stream/TheWorldWasGoingOurWayTheKGBAndTheBattleForTheTheThirdWorld/The%20World%20Was%20Going%20Our%20Way_djvu.txt
	The unexpected surge of international terrorism in the 
early 1970s and the precedent set a few years before by 
the KGB’s use of Sandinista guerrillas against US targets 
in Central and North America — encouraged the Centre to 
consider the use of Palestinian terrorists as proxies in the 
Middle East and Europe. In 1970 the KGB began secret 
arms deliveries to the Marxist-Leninist Popular Front for 
the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP).— The secret was 
remarkably well kept. Though there were a series of 
Western press reports on support for the PFLP from Syria, 
Iraq and Libya, there were none of any significance on its 
Soviet connection. The KGB’s willingness to use other 
terrorist proxies was inhibited by fear that the proxies 
would fail to conceal its involvement— - just as during the 
second half of the Cold War it failed to implement any of 
its numerous and detailed plans for the assassination of 
KGB defectors for fear that it would be blamed for their 
demise.— After the death of the two main Soviet agents 
within the PFLP in 1978, the KGB’s direct connection 
with it appears to have died away.— Nor does the KGB 
seem to have established a connection with any other 
Palestinian terrorist group which was nearly as close as 
that with the PFLP for most of the 1970s.


The KGB wanted to use "palestian terrorists" in general as proxies, but it was closest to PFLP. They wanted to keep the connection secret so they wouldn't be blamed for their terrorist acts. After death of two main Soviet agents in PFLP (Habash and Haddad?) in 1978, the KGB's connection with them "died away," at least in the Mitrokhin archives. The Western press never had a major report on the PFLP's connection to the Soviets, despite their marxist leanings.



	...Asad’s extreme hostility to both Sadat’s visit to Jerusalem in November 1977 (a day of
national mourning in Syria) and the Camp David Agreement of September 1978 53
reinforced his desire for Soviet support, and even produced a short-lived reconciliation
between Syria and Iraq. Asad later admitted that, when Sadat visited him in Damascus
shortly before his visit to Jerusalem, he thought briefly of locking him up to prevent him
going to Israel. 54 KGB files reveal that in December 1977 Asad authorized a secret
meeting in Damascus between his intelligence chiefs and the Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) which discussed plans for assassinating Sadat.


Asad met with PFLP secretly and plotted to assassinate Sadat in 1977


Syria apparently had a relationship with them earlier? they did support them in Black September. Apparently, Moscow had a close relationship with Syria for a long time.


	...The precedent set by the KGB’s use of Sandinista guerrillas against US targets in Central
and North America during the later 1960s 1 encouraged the Centre to consider the use of
Palestinian terrorists as proxies in the Middle East and Europe. The man chiefly
responsible for exporting Palestinian terrorism to Europe was Dr Wadi Haddad, deputy
leader and head of foreign operations of the Marxist-Leninist Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), codenamed KHUTOR, 2 headed by Dr George Habash. On
the day Israeli forces destroyed his family home in Galilee, Haddad had sworn that he
would pursue the Israelis for the rest of his life.

	Convinced of the futility of attacking Israeli military targets after the humiliation of the
Six-Day War, Haddad devised a new strategy of aircraft hijacking and terrorist attacks on
‘Zionist’ targets in Europe which made front-page news across the world and attracted the
favourable attention of the Centre. ‘To kill a Jew far from the battlefield’, he declared, ‘has
more effect than killing hundreds of Jews in battle.’ The first hijack organized by Haddad
was in July 1968 on board an El Al Boeing 707 bound for Tel Aviv which two PFLP
hijackers renamed ‘Palestinian Liberation 007’ and forced to land in Algiers. Though
Israel had publicly declared that it would never negotiate with terrorists, Haddad forced it
to do just that. After more than a month’s negotiations, the Israeli passengers on board
were exchanged for sixteen Palestinians in Israeli jails. 3 It was probably in the aftermath
of the hijack that the KGB made its first contact with Haddad. 4 The KGB remained in
touch with him during the spate of PFLP hijackings and attacks on Jewish targets in
European capitals over the next few years.

	In 1970 Haddad was recruited by the KGB as Agent NATSIONALIST. Andropov
reported to Brezhnev in May:

		The nature of our relations with W. Haddad enables us to control the external operations of the PFLP to a certain degree, to exert influence in a manner favourable to the Soviet Union, and also to carry out active measures in support of our interests through the organization’s assets while observing the necessary conspiratorial secrecy.


The KGB recruited Haddad in 1970, probably after his first airline-hijacking gig. Andropov believed he could "control the external operations" of the PFLP to a certain degree because of this.

Goes on to say Hadded worked with Laila Khalid


	...One of Haddad’s reasons for becoming a KGB agent was probably to obtain Soviet arms for the PFLP.


Andrews speculates that Hadded wanted to become a KGB agent to get weapons for the PFLP. The KGB supplied the PFLP with advanced weapons that would be hard to trace back to them.

Andropov sent Haddad on a secret mission (operation VINT) to kidnap the head of the CIA station in Lebanon.

Ahmed Yunis, cheif of the PFLP security service in Lebanon, was also a KGB "confidential contact." He kidnapped Prof Hani Korda for the KGB.


	...KGB collaboration with Haddad was even closer than 
with Yunis. To conceal his contacts with the Beirut 
residency from his colleagues, Haddad would send his 
secretary by car to rendezvous with a KGB operations 
officer who followed him, also by car, to a location 
chosen by Haddad, which was never the same from one 
meeting to the next.— The main purpose of these 
meetings for the KGB was to encourage Haddad to 
undertake ‘special actions’ proposed or approved by the 
KGB and to prevent PFLP operations which ran counter 
to Soviet interests.— Thanks to Haddad, the KGB almost 
certainly had advance notice of all the main PFLP terrorist 
attacks.


The KGB met with Hadded to direct his operations, and "almost certainly had advance notice of all the main PFLP terrorist attacks."


	The most dramatic operation organized by Haddad in 
1970 was a plan for the almost simultaneous hijack of 
four airliners bound for New York on 6 September and 
their diversion to a remote former RAF airbase in Jordan 
known as Dawson’s Field. The most difficult assignment 
was given to Laila Khalid, still photogenic despite plastic 
surgery to change her appearance since her previous 
hijack, and the Nicaraguan- American Patrick Arguello.


	The pair posed as a newly married couple. Their aircraft, 
an El A1 Boeing 707 departing from Tel Aviv, was the 
only one of the four which, as a result of previous PFLP 
hijacks, carried an armed air marshal. Though Khalid and 
Arguello succeeded in smuggling both handguns and 
grenades aboard, the hijack failed. Arguello was shot by 
the air marshal and Khalid, who was prevented by other 
passengers from removing the grenades hidden in her bra, 
was arrested after the plane made an emergency landing at 
Heathrow. The hijackers aboard a TWA Boeing 707 and a 
Swissair DCS, however, successfully diverted them to 
Dawson’s Field, which they promptly renamed 
Revolution Airstrip. A hijacked Pan Am Boeing 747, 
which was discovered to be too large to land at the 
airstrip, landed instead at Cairo where passengers and 
crew were hastily evacuated and the aircraft blown up. A 
fifth plane, a BOAC VC 10, was hijacked three days later 
and flown to Revolution Airstrip to provide British 
hostages to barter for Khalid. There the passengers were 
eventually exchanged for Khalid and Palestinian terrorists 
imprisoned in West Germany and Switzerland, and the 
aircraft were destroyed by the hijackers.


Haddad organized the Dawson's field hijackings. Khalid was captured after failing to hijack one of the planes.


	Mitrokhin’s material gives no indication of what advice 
FCD ‘special actions’ experts gave Haddad about the 
PFFP hijacks. Proof that they did advise him on terrorist 
attacks, however, is provided by the file on operation 
NASOS: an attack on the Israeli tanker Coral Sea while it 
was carrying Iranian crude oil under a Liberian flag of 
convenience to Eilat. The KGB advised Haddad on both 
the method and location of the attack in the straits of Bab 
al-Mandab close to the island of Mandaran. On 13 June 
1971 two PFLP terrorists, codenamed CHUK and GEK 
by the KGB, boarded a speed-boat on the coast of South 
Yemen and launched an attack on the tanker using three 
of the RPG-7 hand-held anti-tank grenade launchers 
supplied by the KGB in the previous year. According to 
the KGB post-operation report, between seven and nine 
rockets were fired, of which five hit their target. Though 
the Coral Sea was set on fire, however, it did not sink. 
CHUK and GEK made their escape to the coast of North 
Yemen. The head of the FCD, Fyodor Mortin, was 
sufficiently encouraged by the partial success of operation 
NASOS to recommend to Andropov afterwards that the 
KGB ‘make more active use of NATSIONALIST and his 
gunmen to carry out aggressive operations aimed directly 
against Israel’.— Relations with Haddad were complicated 
by turmoil within the PFLP. In 1972, Habash, as leader of 
the PFLP, publicly renounced international terrorism, 
provoking a bitter row with Haddad, who set up a new 
headquarters in Baghdad where he founded a PFLP 
splinter group, the Special Operations Group.— KGB 
support for Haddad, however, continued.


There is no record in the Mitrokhin archives of advice given by the KGB to Hadded for the Dawson's field hijackings, but the KGB did advise or direct some of his attacks, like an attack to fire rockets on an oil tanker.


	...The Centre, however, retained much greater confidence in Haddad than in Arafat. Soviet policy remained to distance itself from terrorism in public while continuing in private to promote Palestinian terrorist attacks. When seeking Politburo approval for Haddad’s terrorist operations, Andropov misleadingly referred to them instead as ‘special’ or ‘sabotage’ operations. ‘W. Haddad’, he reported, ‘is clearly aware of our negative attitude in principle towards terrorism and he does not raise with us matters connected with this particular line of PFLP activity.’ There was, however, no coherent dividing line between the terrorist attacks which ‘in principle’ the Soviet leadership opposed and the ‘sabotage operations’ which it was willing in practice to support. On 23 April 1974 Andropov informed Brezhnev that Haddad had requested further ‘special technical devices’ for his future operations: 

		At the present time [Haddad’s section of] the PFLP is engaged in preparing a number of special operations, including strikes against major petroleum reservoirs in various parts of the world (Saudi Arabia, the Persian Gulf, Hong Kong and elsewhere); the destruction of tankers and supertankers; operations against American and Israeli representatives in Iran, Greece, Ethiopia and Kenya; a raid on the building of the Tel Aviv diamond centre, among other [targets].


Andropov wanted to supply Haddad with "special technical devices" for "special operations." Seemed to be kept up-to-date with Haddad's "special operations."


	Andropov repeated his earlier assurances that, through Haddad, the KGB retained the ability ‘to control to some extent the activities of the PFLP foreign operations department, [and] to influence it in ways favourable to the Soviet Union’. Three days later Brezhnev authorized the supply of ‘special technical devices’ to Haddad. 28 In June 1974 Andropov approved detailed arrangements for the secret supply of weaponry to Haddad and the training of PFLP Special Operations Group instructors in the use of mines and sabotage equipment. In September, Haddad visited Russia, staying with his wife, son and daughter in a KGB dacha (codenamed BARVIKHA-1). During discussions on his future operations he agreed to allocate two or three of his men to the hunting down of Soviet defectors. The weapons supplied to Haddad included foreign-manufactured pistols and automatics fitted with silencers together with radio-controlled mines constructed from foreign materials, at a cost of $50,000, in order to conceal their Soviet manufacture. 29 Further KGB arms shipments to Haddad, approved by the Politburo, included one in May 1975 of fifty-three foreign-produced automatics, fifty pistols (ten with silencers) and 34,000 rounds of ammunition. Brezhnev was informed that Haddad was the only non-Russian who knew the source of the arms, which, as in the first weapons delivery to the PFLP five years earlier, were handed over at sea near Aden under cover of darkness. 30 Among other assistance given by the KGB to Haddad during 1975 was $30,000. 3


Andropov provided Haddad with bombs and guns in June 1974, and trained PFLP agents in the use of bombs. Hadded visited Russia September 1974 and stayed in a KGB dacha. Agreed to hunt down Soviet defectors. KGB gave Haddad guns and money.


	Through the Beirut residency the KGB also established contact with two other terrorist groups which gained publicity after attacks on Israeli civilians in the spring of 1974: the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP), led by Nayif Hawatmeh (codenamed INZHENER), 32 a Greek Orthodox Christian; and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command (PFLP-GC), a breakaway from the PFLP headed by a former Syrian army officer, Ahmad Jibril (codenamed MAYOROV). 33 The Beirut residency arranged meetings with Hawatmeh two or three times a month (for how long is unclear) and planted Service A disinformation in the DFLP journal Hurriya at a cost of 700 Lebanese pounds per page. 34 Mitrokhin’s notes contain no details of KGB contacts with Jibril. 


KGB met with head of other terrorist group, DFLP, 2-3 times a month and planted disinformation in their journal.


	...Despite these débâcles, Haddad remained in close contact with the KGB. In 1976 ten of his terrorists were sent on a three-month course at the FCD Red Banner Institute (later known as the Andropov Institute), which included training in intelligence, counter-intelligence, interrogation, surveillance and sabotage. Further courses were run in 1977-78. 41 In March 1977 Haddad visited Moscow for operational discussions with the head of the FCD ‘special tasks’ department, Vladimir Grigoryevich Krasovsky, and his deputy, A.F. Khlystov. The assistance given to Haddad included $10,000 and ten Walther pistols fitted with silencers. At the KGB’s request, Haddad agreed to act as intermediary in making contact with the Provisional IRA representative in Algiers, codenamed IGROK (‘Gambler’), who was believed to have useful information on British intelligence operations. 42 From 1974 the KGB had a second agent within the PFLP leadership, Ahmad Mahmud Samman (codenamed VASIT), an Arab born in Jerusalem in 1935. Mitrokhin’s brief notes on Samman’s file record that he supplied the KGB with information on PFLP operations, but give no details.


Haddad's terrorist received KGB training, and Haddad discussed operations with the head of the FCD "special tasks" dept. Helped KGB contact IRA operative in Algiers. Ahmad Mahmud Samman, another PFLP leader, was also a KGB agent.


	In 1978 the Centre lost both its main agents within the PFLP. Haddad died of a brain haemorrhage while staying in East Germany. His KGB file records that, despite their earlier quarrel, the PFLP leader George Habash declared in an emotional oration at Haddad’s funeral in Baghdad, ‘Let our enemies know that he did not die, but is alive; he is in our hearts, and his name is in our hands; he is organically bound to our people and to our revolution.’ 44 Samman, according to Mitrokhin’s note on his file, was ‘liquidated by the PFLP as the result of internal dissension [probably following Haddad’s death] and the activities of the Syrian special services’. 45 The Beirut residency also lost probably its most important confidential contact in the PFLP, Ahmad Yunis, head of the PFLP security service in Lebanon. In 1978 Yunis was found guilty by a PFLP tribunal of the murder of one of his colleagues and the attempted murder of another, and executed.


Haddad died in East Germany in 1978. The PFLP killed Samman and Yunis around the same time. Habash eulogized Haddad despite their quarrell. 

The KGB made contact with Haddad's successor, but Mitrokhin found no evidence of any relationship with a terrorist as close as the KGB and Haddad. 


--------


http://pflp.ps/english/2016/03/29/on-the-anniversary-of-the-martyrdom-of-wadie-haddad-pflp-calls-for-the-escalation-of-palestinian-revolutionary-approach/
	On 28 March, 1978, the Palestinian people, the Arab nation and all liberation movements in the world lost a struggler who dedicated his life to freedom for the Palestinian people from Zionist occupation, Comrade Dr. Wadie Haddad of Safad, one of the founders of the Arab Nationalist Movement and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.

	Haddad led and directed the international military operations of the Front, embracing revolutionary violence to resist occupation under the banner of “after the enemy everywhere,” carrying out bold and powerful operations against the occupation in Palestine and internationally, which bore the hallmarks of the leader Wadie Haddad.

	We will not forget that Wadie Haddad is one of those who led in bringing the Palestinian cause to the world as an issue of national liberation and drew the world’s attention to the suffering and struggle of the Palestinian people under occupation, inspiring national liberation movements and strugglers around the world that joined under his leadership and those of his colleagues in carrying out a number of bold operations, such as the operation at Lod airport in 1972 carried out by a group of fighters of the Japanese Red Army.

	On the 38th anniversary of his martyrdom, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine recalls his experience of struggle and calls for the escalation of the resistance and the intifada, and the consolidation of the Palestinian revolutionary approach, emphasizing the right of the Palestinian people to resist the occupation.

	Wadie Haddad had great faith and loyalty to an approach in accordance with the objectives for which he fought and died, that revolutionary violence and armed resistance is the most effective weapon of oppressed peoples to gain their full national rights and liberation.


As of March 2016, still seem to like Haddad and his philsophy of violence, don't seem to mention that he was a KGB agent ("world was going our way" came out 2014).

Interesting in that their post-mortem they seemed to admit the Dawson's field hijackings didn't do the movement much favors (at least they say it was "used to justify "massacres" by Jordan regime), but I guess they still try to idolize Haddad.


http://pflp.ps/english/2012/04/08/jaber-remembering-wadih-haddad-always-loyal-to-the-palestinian-cause/

PFLP guy says Haddad got information from "western sources". What does this mean?


http://pflp.ps/english/2014/03/29/remembering-comrade-dr-wadie-haddad-on-the-36th-anniversary-of-his-martyrdom/
	Through the early ANM’s involvement in the Jordanian Arab national movement, Wadie’s reputation as a dynamic leader grew. In April 1957, the Jordanian regime launched its attack against the national government of Al-Nabulsi and the national movement and launched a campaign of mass arrests against the leaders and activists of the movement, among them Dr. Wadie Haddad, who was held in a desert prison.

	He was held there for three years until he was freed through intensive efforts, where he joined the Arab Nationalist Movement in Damascus.


one reason why you should execut terrorists intead of life in prison

they also got some released from Israel after taking hostages


	...From the Front’s earliest days, Dr. Wadie Haddad held key roles in leadership of the PFLP, with his two main tasks finances and military action outside Palestine, where he implemented the slogan of “Behind the enemy, everywhere,” in a highly effective manner. The military operations carried out by the Front and the military tactics led by the comrade brought the issue of Palestine to the attention of the world, informing an international audience of the cause of the Palestinian people and their suffering due to the Zionist invasion which displaced them, dispossessed them from their lands, and forced them into exile and refugee camps, and their struggle for freedom, return and liberation. He was labelled the “most dangerous man in the world,” a symbol of the “new Palestinian,” the revolutionary confronting the enemy.


according to PFLP, Hadded in "leaderhsip position," "most dangerous man in the world"

	...In the years before his death, Dr. Wadie Haddad was outside the Front following a political dispute over the continuation of military operations outside Palestine. He died in 1978 in East Germany, as the result of a targeted assassination via poisoning by the Mossad. At the Front’s Fifth National Conference, his status in the Front was restored posthumously. His militant role at a Palestinian and pan-Arab level is unparalleled, as one who gave everything for the sake of the liberation of Palestine and sought to reach that goal in the shortest time via the most direct route.


I remember this--an article (WaPo I think) said Haddad and Habash had a falling out over the use of international terrorism. What was he doing in East Germany? According to Mitrokhin archives, this was an "el darado of terrorism" for a while and the KGB preferred to use East German police for terror when possible. How did Haddad die and who killed him?
