
the world was going our way:

	he KGB’s dealings with Yasir Arafat and the PLO were ambivalent. Moscow gave
strong support to an Arab initiative in the UN General Assembly recognizing the PLO as
the lawful representative of Palestinian Arabs and giving it observer status at the UN. A
Palestinian delegation to Moscow in 1975, headed by Arafat, expressed profound gratitude
to the Soviet Union ‘for its unfailing support of the just struggle of the Palestinian people
for their national aspirations, against the intrigues of imperialism, Zionism and reaction’. 29
But despite Moscow’s public praise for the PLO and the secret training for its guerrillas
provided by the KGB, Arafat never gained the trust of either the Kremlin or the Centre.
When PLO forces in Lebanon were defeated by an Israeli invasion in 1982, the Soviet
Union offered no assistance. Though Moscow was embarrassed by the homicidal feud
which broke out between Asad and Arafat in 1983, the closeness of its alliance with Syria
was unaffected by it. In the final years of the Cold War Arafat was almost as unpopular in
Moscow as in Washington.


Moscow supported the PLO (and "palestine movement" in general?), but not as strongly as PFLP.


	Moscow showed rather less interest in the Palestine 
Liberation Organization (PLO, codenamed KARUSEL),— the umbrella organization for all Palestinian 
movements which was based in Jordan until 1970, than in 
Haddad’s faction of the PFLP. Disguised as an Egyptian 
technician, the PLO chairman, Yasir Arafat (initially 
codenamed AREF),— had accompanied Nasser on a visit 
to the Soviet Union in 1968 and, probably as a result of 
Nasser’s backing, received a promise of weapons.— For 
the next few years, Arafat was cultivated without 
conspicuous success by an FCD officer, Vasili 
Fyodorovich Samoylenko.— Arafat, however, was 
unaware that since 1968 the KGB had had an agent, 
codenamed GIDAR, in the office of his personal 
intelligence chief and most trusted adviser, Hani al- 
Hasan.


the KGB, at least as shown in the Mitrokhin archives, was more interest in Haddad's faction of the PFLP than the PLO. The Mitrokhin archives show that they tried to cultivate Arafat, but the agent who did this did not have "conspicuous success." Arafat visited the Soviet Union with Nasser disgused as a technician in 1968. Got weapons from Soviets. A KGB agent in the PLO personal intelligence cheif is recorded in the Mitrokhin archives.


	In September 1970 King Hussein of Jordan, infuriated 
by the recent PFLP hijacking of aircraft to a Jordanian 
airfield and by the emergence of the PLO as a virtually 
independent state within his kingdom, used his army to 
drive it out. Thousands of Palestinians were killed in what 
became known as Black September. A shadowy terrorist 
organization of that name was set up within Arafat’s 
Fatah movement at the heart of the PLO when it 
regrouped in Lebanon. Among the atrocities committed 
by Black September, for which Arafat disingenuously 
disclaimed responsibility, was an attack on Israeli athletes 
competing in the August 1972 Munich Olympics, in 
which eleven were killed. 


Thousands of Palestinians died in Black September. Andrews cites the Dawson's field Hijackings and the PLO's growing power as King Hussiens reason for the crackdown, in agreement with other sources. Arafat was involved with PLO, Fatah, and the Black September organization, which killed Isreali athletes competing in the 1972 Olympics.


	In 1972 Arafat paid his first official visit to Moscow at 
the head of a PLO delegation but failed to impress the 
Centre, which distrusted the ‘slanted’ nature of the 
information he provided and found him anxious to 
maintain contact with ‘reactionary Arab regimes’ as well 
as with the Soviet bloc.— Though Mitrokhin’s notes do 
not mention it, the Centre was also doubtless well aware 
that Arafat’s claims to have been bom in Jemsalem were 
fraudulent; in reality, though his parents were Palestinian 
and he was deeply committed to the Palestinian cause, he 
had been bom in Cairo and had spent his first twenty- 
eight years in Egypt. The Centre also knew that during the 
Suez War of 1956, when Arafat claimed to have been an 
officer in the Egyptian army fighting to defend Port Said, 
he had actually been attending a Communist-sponsored 
student conference in Czechoslovakia.— The fact that 
Arafat had friendly relations with the deviant Communist 
dictator of Romania, Nicolae Ceau§escu, strengthened 
Moscow’s suspicion of him. Arafat was franker with 
Ceau§escu than with the Kremlin. According to the 
Romanian foreign intelligence chief, Ion Pacepa, during a 
visit to Bucharest in October 1972 Arafat claimed that 
Hani al-Hasan, who accompanied him, had been behind 
the Black September attack at the Munich Olympics.


Arafat first official visit to Moscow in 1972 as head of PLO delegation. According to Mitrokhin archives, the Centre distrusted him. Arafat lied about being an Egyptian army officer, and was actually in a Communist conference in Checkoslovokia in 1956. Was friendly with Ceasescu. Pacepa says Arafat pinned the Munich Olympics attacks on al-Hasan.


	Arafat’s visit to Bucharest led to the establishment of a 
close liaison between the PLO and the Romanian foreign
intelligence service. Probably in response to the Centre’s 
desire not to be upstaged by the Romanians, a Politburo 
resolution of 7 September 1973 instructed the KGB to 
maintain secret liaison with Arafat’s intelligence service 
through the Beirut residency.— Arafat’s international 
prestige, and hence Moscow’s interest in him, increased 
in the following year after he became the first head of a 
non-govemmental organization to be invited to address a 
plenary session of the United Nations. ‘I have come 
bearing an olive branch in one hand and a freedom 
fighter’s gun in the other,’ Arafat declared. ‘Do not let the 
olive branch fall from my hand. ’ During a visit by Arafat 
to Moscow in 1974 an official communique recognized 
the PLO as ‘the sole legitimate representative of the Arab 
people of Palestine’. In the course of the visit, 
Samoylenko, the KGB officer who had been cultivating 
Arafat since the later 1960s, was photographed with him 
at a wreath-laying ceremony.— Moscow officially 
announced that it was authorizing the PLO to establish a 
Moscow office - though it was another two years before it 
allowed the office to open. The only other national 
liberation movement given similar status in the Soviet 
Union was the National Liberation Front of Vietnam.— 


There was a "close relationship" between Arafat's PLO and the Romanian foreign intelligence service. Arafat was seen with the KGB officer who was supposed to be cultivating him.



	The military training courses provided by Moscow for the PLO, however, caused some
ill feeling on both sides. A report on a course in 1981 for 194 officers from ten different
PLO factions suggests serious deficiencies in both Soviet training and the quality of many
PLO recruits. According to the PLO commander, Colonel Rashad Ahmad, ‘The
participants in the courses did not correctly understand the political aspects of sending
military delegations abroad. As a result, the upper echelon of the delegation, namely the
participants in the battalion officer courses, refused to study and asked to return, using all
sorts of illogical excuses.’ Ahmad reported that he had been forced to expel thirteen
officers from the training course for offences which included alcoholism, passing
counterfeit money and sexual ‘perversion’. Had he enforced the code of conduct strictly,
he would, he claimed, have been forced to send home more than half the officers. Ahmad
appealed for a higher standard of recruits for future courses in the Soviet Union. 54 East
Germany provided additional training for the PLO in the use of explosives, mines and
firearms with silencers.


the KGB provided training to PLO agents into the 1980s
