

https://www.indymedia.org.uk/en/regions/london/2005/07/318875.html
	In the end of the conversation Alexander Litvinenko transferred us some documents for publication, marked with a signature stamp "top secret" and “of special importance”. The documents show the terrorist activity of the KGB of the USSR and are signed personally by Yury Andropov. At this A. Litvinenko added:

	“There is no doubt, that several years in the archives of Putin's special services we shall find out similar documents and we shall be convinced, that in July, 2005 secret agents of the FSB blew up innocent inhabitants of London in the underground and buses. And they blew them up executing the order of the person, who then at the summit of the G-8 was standing to the right of his "friend" Toni Blare and talking profusely about “double standards” in “the struggle against world terrorism”, demanding from him to give out for punishment his political opponents, who had found a refuge in the Great Britain”.

	The document №1: the 23 rd of April, 1974, № 1071-2/ОV “Top secret. Of Special Importance - the Special folder.

	To Comrade Brezhnev L.I.: Since 1969 the Committee of the State Security supports business secret contact to a member of the Political Bureau of the Front of the National Release of Palestine (FNRP), the head of the department of external operations of the FNRP Vaid Haddad. At the meeting with a resident of the KGB in Lebanon , taken place in April this year, Vaid Haddad in confidential conversation stated a perspective program of subversive and terrorist activity of the FNRP, which basically is reduced to the following. The main purpose of special actions of the FNRP is increase of efficiency of struggle of the Palestinian Resistance movement against Israel , Zionism and American imperialism. Proceeding from this, mainstreams of subversive and terrorist activity of the organization are:

	• Continuation of "the oil war” by the Arabian countries against the imperialistic forces supporting Israel with special means;

	• Realization of actions against the American and Israeli personnel in the third countries with the purpose of reception of trustworthy information about plans and intentions of the USA and Israel ;

	• Carrying out of subversive and terrorist activity in the territory of Israel ;

	• Organization of sabotages against the diamond trust, the fixed capitals of which belong to Israeli, English, Belgian and West-German companies;

	According to this now the FNRP carries out a preparation of some special operations, including striking of impacts at large oil storages in different regions of the world (Saudi Arabia, the Persian Gulf, etc.), destruction of tankers and supertankers, actions against American and Israeli representatives in Iran, Greece, Ethiopia, Kenya, a strike at the building of the diamond center in Tel Aviv, etc.


document of intent to spread "anti western imperialism anti-zionism" through middle east?


------


https://archive.org/stream/TheWorldWasGoingOurWayTheKGBAndTheBattleForTheTheThirdWorld/The%20World%20Was%20Going%20Our%20Way_djvu.txt
	For much of the Cold War, Soviet policy-makers believed they had an in-built advantage in the struggle with the Main Adversary and its allies for power and influence in the Middle East. If Latin America was the United States’ ‘backyard’, the Middle East was that of the Soviet Union. Israel’s special relationship with the United States made its Arab enemies, in Moscow’s view, the natural allies of the Soviet Union. Gromyko and Ponomarev jointly denounced Israel and international Zionism as ‘the main instrument of US imperialism’s assault on Arab countries’. 1 Hatred of Israel multiplied hostility to the United States in the rest of the Middle East. 2 The dramatic loss of America’s confidence in dealing with the Muslim world after the fall of its ally, the Shah of Iran, and the rise of the Ayatollah Khomeini was epitomized by the decision of the Carter administration not to send any congratulations to Muslim leaders to celebrate the 1,400th anniversary of Islam in 1979, for fear that it would somehow cause offence. The Soviet Union, by contrast, despite its official atheism, flooded Arab capitals with messages of congratulation.  


pg 140


	In 1972 Moscow put pressure on a somewhat reluctant Iraqi Communist Party to reach an accommodation with the Ba‘th regime. When thousands of Party members were imprisoned and many tortured at the end of the decade, however, Moscow stayed silent for fear of antagonizing Baghdad at a time when it was at the forefront of the Arab campaign to prevent the United States brokering a peace treaty between Egypt and Israel. In Syria there was a growing breach between the long-serving Party leader and dogmatic neo-Stalinist, Khalid Bakdash, and the majority of the Party Politburo who resented both Bakdash’s autocratic leadership and Moscow’s support for the equally autocratic Asad.


wanted to stop peace treaty between Egypt and Israel


pg 228

on support of PLO, training them, fighting with Israel


	Far from relegating the Palestinian problem to the sidelines, as Israel had intended, the war focused international attention on the need to find a solution. 58

	Finding a solution, however, ranked low in the Soviet order of priorities.


hinting at a deliberate Palestine-Israel split by Moscow?


------


http://www.ph-tribune.com/2016/09/14/palestinian-terrorists-kgb-agent-documents/
	Palestinian terrorists and KGB shared strategic goals, historian says ...


but password protected for some reason


------

http://www.nationalreview.com/article/218533/russian-footprints-ion-mihai-pacepa
	In 1972, the Kremlin decided to turn the whole Islamic world against Israel and the U.S. As KGB chairman Yury Andropov told me, a billion adversaries could inflict far greater damage on America than could a few millions. We needed to instill a Nazi-style hatred for the Jews throughout the Islamic world, and to turn this weapon of the emotions into a terrorist bloodbath against Israel and its main supporter, the United States. No one within the American/Zionist sphere of influence should any longer feel safe.

	According to Andropov, the Islamic world was a waiting petri dish in which we could nurture a virulent strain of America-hatred, grown from the bacterium of Marxist-Leninist thought. Islamic anti-Semitism ran deep. The Muslims had a taste for nationalism, jingoism, and victimology. Their illiterate, oppressed mobs could be whipped up to a fever pitch.

	Terrorism and violence against Israel and her master, American Zionism, would flow naturally from the Muslims’ religious fervor, Andropov sermonized. We had only to keep repeating our themes — that the United States and Israel were “fascist, imperial-Zionist countries” bankrolled by rich Jews. Islam was obsessed with preventing the infidels’ occupation of its territory, and it would be highly receptive to our characterization of the U.S. Congress as a rapacious Zionist body aiming to turn the world into a Jewish fiefdom.


Pacepa says Andropov intended to turn Muslim world against West

	The codename of this operation was “SIG” (Sionistskiye Gosudarstva, or “Zionist Governments”), and was within my Romanian service’s “sphere of influence,” for it embraced Libya, Lebanon, and Syria. SIG was a large party/state operation. We created joint ventures to build hospitals, houses, and roads in these countries, and there we sent thousands of doctors, engineers, technicians, professors, and even dance instructors. All had the task of portraying the United States as an arrogant and haughty Jewish fiefdom financed by Jewish money and run by Jewish politicians, whose aim was to subordinate the entire Islamic world.

	In the mid 1970s, the KGB ordered my service, the DIE — along with other East European sister services — to scour the country for trusted party activists belonging to various Islamic ethnic groups, train them in disinformation and terrorist operations, and infiltrate them into the countries of our “sphere of influence.” Their task was to export a rabid, demented hatred for American Zionism by manipulating the ancestral abhorrence for Jews felt by the people in that part of the world. Before I left Romania for good, in 1978, my DIE had dispatched around 500 such undercover agents to Islamic countries. According to a rough estimate received from Moscow, by 1978 the whole Soviet-bloc intelligence community had sent some 4,000 such agents of influence into the Islamic world.


did an inflence operation (SIG) in those countries to get them to hate U.S.

still something off about Pacepa--why doesn't he mention the other side, getting people in U.S. to hate Muslims?

	In the mid-1970s we also started showering the Islamic world with an Arabic translation of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, a tsarist Russian forgery that had been used by Hitler as the foundation for his anti-Semitic philosophy. We also disseminated a KGB-fabricated “documentary” paper in Arabic alleging that Israel and its main supporter, the United States, were Zionist countries dedicated to converting the Islamic world into a Jewish colony.

	We in the Soviet bloc tried to conquer minds, because we knew we could not win any military battles. It is hard to say what exactly are the lasting effects of operation SIG. But the cumulative effect of disseminating hundreds of thousands of Protocols in the Islamic world and portraying Israel and the United States as Islam’s deadly enemies was surely not constructive.


handing out protocols again


	...Iran’s current president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, had already announced that nothing could stop his country from building nuclear weapons, and he stated that Israel was a “disgraceful stain [on] the Islamic world” that would be eliminated. During World War II, 405,399 Americans died to eradicate Nazism and its anti-Semitic terrorism. Now we are facing Islamic fascism and nuclear anti-Semitic terrorism. The United Nations can offer no hope. It has not yet even been able to define terrorism.


"Islamic fascism"

hmmm


	...A proverb says that one fire drives out another. The Kremlin may be our best hope. In May 2002, the NATO foreign ministers approved a partnership with Russia, the alliance’s former enemy. The rest of the world said that the Cold War was over and done with. Kaput. Now Russia wants to be admitted to the World Trade Organization. For that to happen, the Kremlin should be firmly told first to get out of the terrorism business.


his solution is to tell the Kremlin to stop?

------

https://www.rferl.org/a/soviet-islamist-terrorism-israel-america-disinformation-pacepa/25034290.html
 	Humiliated by the defeat of the Soviet-backed Arab states in their 1967 war against Israel, they write, Andropov devised the operation to discredit the Jewish state and present Zionism as "Nazi-style racism" while at the same time restoring Moscow's stature in the region.


heard this before... do they see it as revenge for loss in Afghanistan?

 	...The authors claim the operation, code-named SIG, was launched in 1972 and involved sending thousands of agents of influence into the Arab and Islamic world to foster anti-American and anti-Israel sentiment. Some of the agents were drawn from among the Muslim minorities of the Soviet Union and other Warsaw Pact countries.

	..."Before I left Romania for good in 1978, [Romania's foreign intelligence service] had sent around 500 such undercover agents to various Islamic countries. Most of them were religious servants, engineers, medical doctors, teachers, and art instructors," Pacepa told RFE/RL.

 	"According to a rough estimate received from Moscow, by 1978 the whole Soviet bloc intelligence community had sent around 4,000 such agents of influence to the Islamic world. The rule of thumb for that part of the globe was that only 70-75 percent of those assets would end up being really useful.... It is safe to presume that it must have had some effect."
