https://www.indymedia.org.uk/en/regions/london/2005/07/318875.html
	The correspondent: Alexander, who, in your opinion, is the originator of this terrorist attack?

	A. Litvinenko: You know, I have spoken about it earlier and I shall say now, that I know only one organization, which has made terrorism the main tool of solving of political problems. It is the Russian special services. The KGB was engaged in terrorism for many years, and, in mass terrorism. At the special department of the KGB they trained terrorists practically from all countries of the world; these courses lasted, as a rule, for a half-year. Specially trained and prepared agents of the KGB organized murders and explosions, including explosions of tankers, captures of passenger air liners, strikes on the diplomatic, state and commercial organizations practically worldwide.

	The correspondent: Could you name though some of the terrorists prepared at the "special courses" of the KGB-FSB?

	A. Litvinenko: The bloodiest terrorists of the world were or are agents of the KGB-FSB. These are and well-known Carlos Ilyich Ramiros, the nickname "Jackal" (he is condemned for terrorism in France), deceased Yassir Arafat, Saddam Hussein, Adjalan (he is condemned in Turkey), Vadi Haddad, the head of the service of external operations of the Popular front of releasing of Palestine, Hauyi, the head of the communist party of Lebanon, mister Papaionnu from the Cyprus, Sean Garland from Ireland and many others. All of them were trained in the KGB, received money from there, weapon and explosive, counterfeit documents and a communication facility necessary for carrying out of acts of terrorism practically worldwide. 


	...The correspondent: What can you say concerning the acts of terrorism in London ? From what region and with what forces was this impact directed?

	A. Litvinenko: In reply to this question I can declare perfectly definitely, that the center of the global terrorism is not in Iraq , Iran , Afghanistan or the Chechen Republic . The terrorism infection creeps away worldwide from the cabinets of the Lubyanka Square and the Kremlin. And until the Russian special services are forbidden, dispersed and condemned, the terrorism will never stop: bombs will blow up, and blood will be shed. Terrorism has no limitation period and those, who were engaged in it, should be found and punished, until they are alive, instead of to award them with the Nobel Prize of the world and not to set up monuments for them.

	I would like to repeat, that all the terrorists, whom I have named, were supported by the heads of the Soviet and Russian special services - Yury Andropov, Vladimir Putin, Nikolay Patrushev and others. These people are the main terrorists, and their place is not among the heads of the civilized countries, but on a dock. And until we condemn them, the same as in due time they condemned fascist Gestapo, the terrorism on the earth will not stop. 


KGB responsible for terrorism around the world


------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_September


Haddid responsible for sparking war between Jordan and PLO? not exactly sure of ramifications of this, what KGB was hoping to accomplish


http://www.ynetnews.com/articles/0,7340,L-4874089,00.html
	Thirty-one years before the 9/11 terror attacks, Haddad had already managed to carry out an attack that included the simultaneous hijacking of several jet airliners. This attack was one of the triggers of Jordan's big confrontation against terror organizations—known as "Black September"—and changed the course of history in the Middle East. 


------

http://www.ynetnews.com/articles/0,7340,L-4874089,00.html
	It was not just Haddad with whom the Americans had to contend. The KGB also recruited his fellow PFLP terrorist Abu Ahmed Yunis as a paid agent, giving him the codename "Tarshikh." 


lots of different agents... how many named in Mitrokhin archives?

	...Special ties were also forged between the KGB and the Western Sector—a Fatah unit under the command of Khalil al-Wazir (Abu Jihad), who was responsible for the 1975 Savoy Hotel attack and the 1978 Coastal Road massacre, among others. The Mitrokhin documents only reach 1986, but according to other sources, the KGB's contact with Abu Jihad continued until he was assassinated by Israel in 1988. 


	...In 1973, the KGB decided to change its attitude towards Yasser Arafat and his Fatah faction as the Palestinian organization's standing in the international arena strengthened. The KGB's operational and intelligence cooperation with the PLO was mainly conducted through Salah Khalaf (Abu Iyad), who was responsible for countless terror attacks against Israel.

 
	Abu Iyad, whose codename was "Kochubey," received a significant amount of weapons, intelligence, assistance and training for his men from the KGB. In return, the KGB directed some of Fatah's operations and received "information about Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Algeria." In other words, the Fatah spied on Arab nations for the KGB. 


another


	...The two most important KGB recruitments from the PLO during the second half of the 1970s were of people who still play a major role in Palestinian politics today.

 
	According to the Mitrokhin documents, the KGB had an agent at the heart of the PLO whose file describes him as "a member of the PLO's executive committee and a member in the politburo of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP)." This was none other than Yasser Abed Rabbo, one of the top officials in the Palestinian Authority, who held a number of senior roles in the PA over the years, was a chief negotiator in talks with Israel, and one of the architects of the Geneva Initiative.

	Abed Rabbo was fired by Mahmoud Abbas when the latter was elected, but stayed on as a senior advisor to the Palestinian president. 

	...The second and more important KGB recruitment was of the agent "Krotov" (mole), who was described in the KGB's files as "born in 1935, Palestinian, prominent figure both politically and socially. Lives in Syria, a member of the PLO Central Council."
 
	As reported on Channel 1, based on research conducted by Isabella Ginor and Gideon Remez, agent "Krotov" is none other than Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority. 


some KGB agents in PLO named in Mitrokhin still active today?


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mahmoud_Abbas
	It emerged in September 2016 that Abbas may have once worked for the KGB, as early as 1985 in Damascus, according to a document uncovered in the Mitrokhin Archive, where he is registered as agent "Krotov". Palestinian officials replied that at the time in question, the PLO collaborated with Moscow, and that Abbas was their liaison man in the Palestinian-Soviet friendship foundation.[24][25]


hmmm


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palestine_Liberation_Organization
	until the Madrid Conference in 1991. In 1993, the PLO recognized Israel's right to exist in peace, accepted UN Security Council resolutions 242 and 338, and rejected "violence and terrorism"; in response, Israel officially recognized the PLO as the representative of the Palestinian people.


seems better

can the Taliban do that?


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mahmoud_Abbas
	Despite Abbas's call for a peaceful solution, attacks by militant groups continued after his election, in a direct challenge to his authority. The Palestinian Islamic Jihad Movement in Palestine launched a raid in Gaza on 12 January 2005, that killed one and wounded three Israeli military personnel.[32] On 13 January, Palestinians from the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades, Hamas, and the Popular Resistance Committees launched a suicide attack on the Karni crossing, killing six Israelis.[32] As a result, Israel shut down the damaged terminal and broke off relations with Abbas and the Palestinian Authority, stating that Abbas must now show a gesture of peace by attempting to stop such attacks.


I guess he decided to keep doing terrorism anyway


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mahmoud_Abbas#/media/File:Donald_Trump_and_Mahmoud_Abbas_in_the_Oval_Office,_May_3,_2017_%281%29.jpg


Donald Trump shaking hands with KGB terrorist


http://freebeacon.com/national-security/report-soviet-docs-palestinian-president-kgb-agent/
	Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas was a Soviet agent working for the KGB in Damascus, Syria in 1983, Israel’s Channel 1 reported Wednesday.

	Channel 1’s foreign news editor Oren Nahari reported that documents from the Mitrokhin Archive, upheld by KGB defector Vasily Mitrokhin, show Abbas was once a Soviet spy.

	The documents were obtained by Israeli researchers Isabella Ginor and Gideon Remez and reportedly reveal that Abbas, with the code name Krotov (which means "mole"), worked for Vladimir Putin’s current envoy to the Middle East, Mikhail Bogdanov, who was stationed in Damascus in 1983, the Times of Israel reported.

	The Mitrokhin Archive is known for being one of the best sources of information on Soviet intelligence operations. Mitrokhin has said that the KGB recruited the "then-head of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, Wadi Haddad, as an agent in the 1970s," according to the Times of Israel.

	It is unclear from the documents if Abbas was an agent before or after 1983.

	Abbas did have ties to Russia before becoming part of the Palestinian Liberation Organization, attending the People’s Friendship University of Russia in Moscow in the late 1970s and early 1980s. He wrote a doctoral thesis that denied the scope of the Holocaust, titled "The Secret Relationship between German Nazis and Zionists," the Times noted.

------

http://www.haaretz.com/middle-east-news/palestinians/1.807962
	Abbas: I Met Trump's Envoys 20 Times and Still Don't Understand Their Peace Plan


KGB agent: Trump has no idea what he's doing


------

http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2347604/posts
	This leads to the logical connection between Russian and Islamic terrorism. The late Alexander Litvinenko, poisoned in London in November, 2006, told me that his former FSB colleagues had trained famous Al-Qaeda terrorists Ayman Al-Zawahiri and Juma Namangoniy during the 1980s and 1990s. Ayman Al-Zawahiri, one of the world's most wanted terrorists, has been responsible for the murder of U.S. nationals outside the United States. Before his death, Juma Namangoniy (Jumabai Hojiyev), a native of Soviet Uzbekistan, was a right-hand man of Osama bin Laden in charge of the Taliban's northern front in Afghanistan.

	In 1996, Alexander Litvinenko was responsible for securing the secrecy of Al-Zawahiri's arrival in Russia, who was trained by FSB instructors in Dagestan, Northern Caucasus, in 1996-1997. 


More on Litvinenko and relation to al-Zawahiri, also mentions Juma Namangoniy

	At that time, Litvinenko was the Head of the Subdivision for Internationally Wanted Terrorists of the First Department of the Operative-Inquiry Directorate of the FSB Anti-Terrorist Department. He was ordered to undertake the delicate mission of securing Al-Zawahiri from unintentional disclosure by the Russian police. Though Al-Zawahiri had been brought to Russia by the FSB using a false passport, it was still possible for the police to learn about his arrival and report to Moscow for verification. Such a process could disclose Al-Zawahiri as an FSB collaborator. 

	In order to prevent this, Litvinenko visited a group of the highly placed police officers to notify them in advance. "If you get information about some suspicious Arabs arriving in the Caucasus, please report it to me before informing your leadership", he told them. 


goes into detail

	Juma Namangoniy was once a student of the Saboteur Training Center of the First Chief Directorate of the KGB in 1989-91. The school was notorious for the international terrorists who matriculated from it. It now belongs to the FSB, and since only KGB staff officers were allowed to study there, Juma Namangoniy's presence clearly suggests that he was much more than a civil collaborator. 


says Juma also KGB
