

https://www.indymedia.org.uk/en/regions/london/2005/07/318875.html
	The correspondent: Alexander, who, in your opinion, is the originator of this terrorist attack?

	A. Litvinenko: You know, I have spoken about it earlier and I shall say now, that I know only one organization, which has made terrorism the main tool of solving of political problems. It is the Russian special services. The KGB was engaged in terrorism for many years, and, in mass terrorism. At the special department of the KGB they trained terrorists practically from all countries of the world; these courses lasted, as a rule, for a half-year. Specially trained and prepared agents of the KGB organized murders and explosions, including explosions of tankers, captures of passenger air liners, strikes on the diplomatic, state and commercial organizations practically worldwide. 


KGB use terrorism as "main tool" of solving political problems


	...The correspondent: You can be objected, that each of the listed figures and the forces, supporting them, were engaged in solving of their own political problems …

	A. Litvinenko: Certainly, all these figures and movements headed by them operated under their own slogans, however thus none of them hid especially their "intimate" (we shall say so) communications with the Kremlin and Lubyanka. There is a simple question: whether Russian special services would train and finance those people and those groupings, which were not supervised by Lubyanka and did not serve to the interests of the Kremlin? You understand perfectly, they would not. Each act of terrorism made by these people was carried out according to the task and under the rigid control of the KGB of the USSR . And it is not casual after the disintegration of the USSR and disorder of the KGB terrorism in the world practically came to naught. But this calm lasted only till the time, until security officers seized power in Russia and then everything began anew. After Putin's assignment to the post of the head of the FSB, in this special service political investigation was revived and those, who in days of the KGB had been engaged in terrorism, were are returned to the service. 


KGB fund, support groups that serve their interests, Putin resumes terrorism after fall of Soviet Union



------


	The precedent set by the KGB’s use of Sandinista guerrillas against US targets in Central and North America during the later 1960s 1 encouraged the Centre to consider the use of Palestinian terrorists as proxies in the Middle East and Europe. The man chiefly responsible for exporting Palestinian terrorism to Europe was Dr Wadi Haddad, deputy leader and head of foreign operations of the Marxist-Leninist Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), codenamed KHUTOR, 2 headed by Dr George Habash. On the day Israeli forces destroyed his family home in Galilee, Haddad had sworn that he would pursue the Israelis for the rest of his life.


So they try the "use terrorists" thing since it worked with Sandinistas, target PLOT, Dr. Wadi Haddad recruited to export terrorism to Europe. Hates Jews.


	In 1970 Haddad was recruited by the KGB as Agent NATSIONALIST. Andropov reported to Brezhnev in May:

		The nature of our relations with W. Haddad enables us to control the external operations of the PFLP to a certain degree, to exert influence in a manner favourable to the Soviet Union, and also to carry out active measures in support of our interests through the organization’s assets while observing the necessary conspiratorial secrecy.


Andropov intends to control terrorists for "interests," preserve "conspiratorial secrecy."


	One of Haddad’s reasons for becoming a KGB agent was probably to obtain Soviet arms for the PFLP. With Brezhnev’s approval, an initial delivery of five RPG-7 hand-held anti-tank grenade launchers in July was followed by the elaborately planned operation VOSTOK (‘East’), during which a large consignment of arms and ammunition were handed over to the PFLP at sea near Aden under cover of darkness. To prevent any of the arms and ammunition being traced back to the KGB if they were captured, the shipment consisted of fifty West German pistols (ten with silencers) with 5,000 rounds of ammunition; fifty captured MG-ZI machine guns with 10,000 rounds of ammunition; five British-made Sterling automatics with silencers and 36,000 rounds of ammunition; fifty American AR-16 automatics with 30,000 rounds of ammunition; fifteen booby-trap mines manufactured from foreign materials; and five radio-activated ‘SNOP’ mines, also assembled from foreign materials. The two varieties of mine were among the most advanced small weapons in the extensive Soviet arsenal, and, like some of the silencers, had never been previously supplied even to other members of the Warsaw Pact.



KGB arming terrorists, and this is part of how they influence them, I guess make them dependent on Soviet arms?


	A number of other PFLP operations against Mossad and CIA targets succeeded. In 1970 an individual codenamed SOLIST, who was being cultivated by the KGB residency inBeirut, came under suspicion of working for the Israelis after his brother was arrested in Cairo, charged with being a Mossad agent. SOLIST was kidnapped by a PFLP snatch squad, headed by Ahmad Yunis (also known as Abu Ahmad), chief of the PFLP security service in Lebanon, and brought to the Beirut residency for interrogation. Soon afterwards Yunis became a KGB confidential contact (though not, like Haddad, a fully recruited agent) with the codename TARSHIKH.


Terrorist imprisoned by Soviet asset state, suddenly he's a KGB agent


	Mitrokhin’s material gives no indication of what advice FCD ‘special actions’ experts gave Haddad about the PLFP hijacks. Proof that they did advise him on terrorist attacks, however, is provided by the file on operation NASOS: an attack on the Israeli tanker Coral Sea while it was carrying Iranian crude oil under a Liberian flag of convenience to Eilat. The KGB advised Haddad on both the method and location of the attack in the straits of Bab al-Mandab close to the island of Mandaran. On 13 June 1971 two PFLP terrorists, codenamed CHUK and GEK by the KGB, boarded a speed-boat on the coast of South Yemen and launched an attack on the tanker using three of the RPG-7 hand-held anti-tank grenade launchers supplied by the KGB in the previous year. According to the KGB post-operation report, between seven and nine rockets were fired, of which five hit their target. Though the Coral Sea was set on fire, however, it did not sink. CHUK and GEK made their escape to the coast of North Yemen. The head of the FCD, Fyodor Mortin, was sufficiently encouraged by the partial success of operation NASOS to recommend to Andropov afterwards that the KGB ‘make more active use of NATSIONALIST and his gunmen to carry out aggressive operations aimed directly against Israel’.


KGB directing terrorist activities


	Haddad’s terrorist operations, Andropov misleadingly referred to them instead as ‘special’ or ‘sabotage’ operations. ‘W. Haddad’, he reported, ‘is clearly aware of our negative attitude in principle towards terrorism and he does not raise with us matters connected with this particular line of PFLP activity.’ There was, however, no coherent dividing line between the terrorist attacks which ‘in principle’ the Soviet leadership opposed and the ‘sabotage operations’ which it was willing in practice to support. On 23 April 1974 Andropov informed Brezhnev that Haddad had requested further ‘special technical devices’ for his future operations:

		At the present time [Haddad’s section of] the PFLP is engaged in preparing a number of special operations, including strikes against major petroleum reservoirs in various parts of the world (Saudi Arabia, the Persian Gulf, Hong Kong and elsewhere); the destruction of tankers and supertankers; operations against American and Israeli representatives in Iran, Greece, Ethiopia and Kenya; a raid on the building of the Tel Aviv diamond centre, among other [targets].

	Andropov repeated his earlier assurances that, through Haddad, the KGB retained the ability ‘to control to some extent the activities of the PFLP foreign operations department, [and] to influence it in ways favourable to the Soviet Union’.


Andropov downplays that terrorism is bad, maintains claims of "favourable to the Soviet Union," puts them on missions to blow up tankers, operations against U.S. and Israeli reps, reading buildings around the world


	In June 1974 Andropov approved detailed arrangements for the secret supply of weaponry to Haddad and the training of PFLP Special Operations Group instructors in the use of mines and sabotage equipment. In September, Haddad visited Russia, staying with his wife, son and daughter in a KGB dacha (codenamed BARVIKHA-1). During discussions on his future operations he agreed to allocate two or three of his men to the hunting down of Soviet defectors.


Andropov brings terrorists to train in Russia, sends them off to hunt down Soviet defectors.





------



https://archive.org/stream/TheWorldWasGoingOurWayTheKGBAndTheBattleForTheTheThirdWorld/The%20World%20Was%20Going%20Our%20Way_djvu.txt


~pg 140


	...The unexpected surge of international terrorism in the early 1970s and the precedent set a few years before by the KGB’s use of Sandinista guerrillas against US targets in Central and North America 19 encouraged the Centre to consider the use of Palestinian terrorists as proxies in the Middle East and Europe. In 1970 the KGB began secret arms deliveries to the Marxist-Leninist Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP). 20 The secret was remarkably well kept. Though there were a series of Western press reports on support for the PFLP from Syria, Iraq and Libya, there were none of any significance on its Soviet connection. The KGB’s willingness to use other terrorist proxies was inhibited by fear that the proxies would fail to conceal its involvement 21 - just as during the second half of the Cold War it failed to implement any of its numerous and detailed plans for the assassination of KGB defectors for fear that it would be blamed for their demise.


Using terrorist proxies, fear of connection being shown


	The Centre appears to have regarded the two most active terrorist leaders of the later 1970s and 1980s, Ilich Ramírez Sánchez (better known as ‘Carlos the Jackal’) and Sabri al-Banna (better known as ‘Abu Nidal’), as mavericks with whom it was prudent to avoid all direct connection. Its judgement proved right in both cases. Carlos was a champagne terrorist with a passion for killing, high living and self-important revolutionary rhetoric. 24 As well as attacking European and US targets, the increasingly paranoid Abu Nidal became obsessed with the hunt for mostly imaginary Palestinian traitors, whom he subjected to horrific torture and execution. 25 While refusing to deal directly with either Carlos or Abu Nidal, however, Andropov was content for other Soviet bloc intelligence agencies to do so. With Andropov’s knowledge (and doubtless his blessing), East Germany became what its last interior minister, Peter-Michael Diestel, later called ‘an Eldorado for terrorists’. 26 By the mid-1980s, however, both Carlos and Abu Nidal had become such an embarrassment to their Soviet bloc hosts that their eastEuropean bases were closed down. Both continued to receive assistance from the Soviet Union’s main Middle Eastern ally, Hafiz al-Asad. Carlos later claimed, in a characteristic transport of semi-reliable rhetoric, to be ‘a senior officer of the Syrian secret service’. 27 Abu Nidal died in Baghdad in 2002, allegedly by his own hand, more probably murdered on the instructions of his former protector, Saddam Hussein. 


Soviets supporting crazed terrorists, but try to keep them away from KGB, prefer other Soviet states intel agencies instead. East Germany (where Putin was from) said to be "El Darado" for terrorists. 


------

http://www.nationalreview.com/article/218533/russian-footprints-ion-mihai-pacepa
	Russia’s outmoded weapons are now all the rage with terrorists everywhere in the world, and the bad guys know exactly where to get them. The weapons cases abandoned by Hezbollah were marked: “Customer: Ministry of Defense of Syria. Supplier: KBP, Tula, Russia.”


using Syria as a proxy to supply terrorists?


http://www.nationalreview.com/article/218533/russian-footprints-ion-mihai-pacepa
	General Aleksandr Sakharovsky, who created Communist Romania’s intelligence structure and then rose to head up all of Soviet Russia’s foreign intelligence, often lectured me: “In today’s world, when nuclear arms have made military force obsolete, terrorism should become our main weapon.”


right, terrorism as a means to wage war


------

http://www.interpretermag.com/putin-has-made-terrorism-an-integral-part-of-russian-state-policy-plamenyev-says/
	Staunton, September 20 – Leaders of various countries have exploited terrorist attacks against their countries for their own purposes, but Vladimir Putin has made terrorism an integral part of Russian state policy, not only exploiting attacks but involving Russian security agencies and forces in terrorist actions as needed, according to Konstantin Plamenyev.

	“Historical experience shows,” the Moscow commentator says, “that personal fears and the fears of particular power groups or rulers are behind many of these events” because they can use them to manipulate public opinion in directions that they want.

	Moreover, he says, “Terrorism has made the world dangerous and unpredictable, less stable and more pragmatic, and also put humanity on the edge of a new global war. If in the second half of the 20th century, it was acceptable to call terrorist activity ‘international terrorism,’ then in our time, terrorism…has evolved into ‘state terrorism.’”


"more pragmatic"--can see this in Trump's policies. Conversation has shifted from what's "right" to what's best for national security. Can even see that in Trump's recent speech (either the Pheonix rally or Afghanistan speech I forget), where he says security is the primary function of the state.

Also see in Muslim registry, Muslim ban idea--give up ideals about religious freedom in exchange for security. Change they way people think so they are afraid of each other.


	With Putin’s rise to power, “terrorism firmly entered [Russian] life,” first helping to power an obscure KGB lieutenant colonel to supreme power with the 1999 apartment bombings and then leading to war in the Caucasus, war in Georgia, “the annexation of Crimea and war in Ukraine.”

	“Over the course of his rule, the authorities in the form of the Russian special services, having adopted ‘the science of terror’ have perfected and developed new methods of state terrorism, above all by having made the army and the media inalienable parts of it,” Plemenyev argues.

	And as a result, “in contemporary Russia, state terrorism has become a domestic and foreign policy instrument of rule,” frightening the population into supporting ever more violence against others and frightening the leaders of other countries into avoiding taking a tough stand against what Putin has been doing.


terrorism as an instrument of control. Can see that after Beslan massacre, implemented more state control, expanded powers of Presidency


	In Russian mass consciousness, Plamenyev continues, there have been “cardinal and difficult to justify shifts.” On the one hand, this has involved the completion of “the process of fusion of oligarchic, criminal and power structures into a collective Putin.” And on the other, it has transformed society into “an aggressive marginal” one ready to back whatever he does.

	“After the victory of the Maidan and the flight of Yanukovych,” the commentator says, “Putin began a broad-scale war against Ukraine, one of the constituent elements of the so-called ‘hybrid’ war was terrorism.”


Russian intel conducring terrorism in Ukraine?


------


http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2347604/posts
	Americans generally believe that Russia is afraid of Islamic terrorism as much as the U.S.A. They are reminded of the war in Chechnya, the hostage crisis at the Beslan School in 2004 and at the Moscow Theater in 2002, and of the apartment house blasts in Moscow in 1999, where over 200 people were killed. It is clear that Russians are also targets of terrorism today.

	But in all these events, the participation of the FSB, Federal Security Service, inheritor to the KGB, is also clear. Their involvement in the Moscow blasts has been proven by lawyer Mikhail Trepashkin, a former FSB Colonel. For this he was illegally imprisoned, and is now suffering torture and deprivation of medical assistance, from which he is not likely to survive.

	A key distinction between Russian and American attitudes towards Islamic terrorism is that while for America terrorism is largely seen as an exterior menace, Russia uses terrorism as an object as a tool of the state for manipulation in and outside the home country. Islamic terrorism is only part of the world of terrorism. Long before Islamic terrorism became a global threat, the KGB had used terrorism to facilitate the victory of world Communism. 


terrorism as "a tool of the state for manipulation in and outside of the home country"
