hadded and carlos the jackel worked for KGB, PLFP a KGB front

zawahiri worked for them

Juma Namangani work for them?

support Taliban (since when? how?)

used chechan terrorism to start chechan war, "reorganize" military, create political problems for General Troshev (others?), Yeltsin (I think?)

also supported terrorists in early 20th century, anarchists, e.g. Azno Enzef

for each need:

who worked for them
what they did
how they used it


------


other things to look at:

Chechen Taliban link
PLFP Marxism
What's up with Preobrazhenskiy? telling half-truths?
Exactly what Litvinenko said about Zawahiri, al-qaeda and the FSB


------


Preobrazhenskiy wrote this white paper that reads as propaganda to divide Islamic world and West:

http://www.leninandsharia.com/docs/preobrazhensky.pdf

There was more on this I think in one of Horowitz's sites, made it pretty clear what they were trying to do


------


://www.indymedia.org.uk/en/regions/london/2005/07/318875.html
        The correspondent: Alexander, who, in your opinion, is the originator of this terrorist attack?

        A. Litvinenko: You know, I have spoken about it earlier and I shall say now, that I know only one organization, which has made terrorism the main tool of solving of political problems. It is the Russian special services. The KGB was engaged in terrorism for many years, and, in mass terrorism. At the special department of the KGB they trained terrorists practically from all countries of the world; these courses lasted, as a rule, for a half-year. Specially trained and prepared agents of the KGB organized murders and explosions, including explosions of tankers, captures of passenger air liners, strikes on the diplomatic, state and commercial organizations practically worldwide.

        The correspondent: Could you name though some of the terrorists prepared at the "special courses" of the KGB-FSB?

        A. Litvinenko: The bloodiest terrorists of the world were or are agents of the KGB-FSB. These are and well-known Carlos Ilyich Ramiros, the nickname "Jackal" (he is condemned for terrorism in France), deceased Yassir Arafat, Saddam Hussein, Adjalan (he is condemned in Turkey), Vadi Haddad, the head of the service of external operations of the Popular front of releasing of Palestine, Hauyi, the head of the communist party of Lebanon, mister Papaionnu from the Cyprus, Sean Garland from Ireland and many others. All of them were trained in the KGB, received money from there, weapon and explosive, counterfeit documents and a communication facility necessary for carrying out of acts of terrorism practically worldwide. 


Litvinenko lists some names. Should pick some good names and events for examples.


Also:

Abu Nidal - maverick, "hunted" palestenian "traitors", Saddam Hussein his former "protector"

Ezno Asef - Okhrana stooge

Hafiz al-Asad?


------


Active measures is all about influcing public opinion. Acts of terrorism are a clear way to do that. Should look at terrorist acts by KGB from this perspective.

How is/can terrorism be used this way?

polarize two groups--maybe most obvious effect? iirc, the IWW bombings galvanized public opinion against IWW, but at the same time this would contribute to IWW members feeling as though they are persecuted. 9/11 helped pit the Muslim world against the West (9/11 conspiricy theories are common in Muslim world and so I think many believe U.S. wars in middle east are unjust).

start a war--subset of above. The Mudken incident and the incident that led to (1st?) Chechen war for example

justify creating a security state--supposedly happened in Russia, maybe something like that attempted in America too

blackmail--if certain people know KGB is behind terrorist attacks but for whatever reason don't have enough evidence to convince everyone else, they could use terrorism to coerce them. Possibly see examples of threats of acts of terrorism in the media.


major acts of terrorism can change the way a whole society thinks.

https://rendezvous.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/05/the-enduring-legacy-of-chinas-great-famine/
	I do believe it created a kind of long-lasting impact in the sense that, O.K., human beings are selfish, you can say that in general. But the use of violence, it really reached its height during the famine period and I believe that was the background behind the Cultural Revolution” that began just four years later, in 1966, killing many more.

	Hopelessness and selfishness inform Chinese society to this day, she said.

	“I very much feel that coming from this, what people have in China is a sense of hopelessness,” she said. “That to survive, the only way is to do it yourself.”

	Unable to look to the state to provide a safe environment, “you take things for yourself. It’s the only possible means to survive,” she said. 


9/11 also said to have changed U.S. society. Making peopel more bigoted is one, also led to many conspiracy theories and conspiracy theorists and so more distrust in U.S. government.

Terrorism in Islamic world or by Islamic extremists also associates Islam and terrorism in public opinion--see that in propaganda like Horowitz's site. They basically say terrorism is part of the religion of Islam.

historical acts like Japanese war crimes in WWII, holodomor, Armenian genocide, Holocaust, and slavery can be used to divide countries and groups years after the incident

almost surely, repeated acts of terrorism (if not more major acts) would change society as well, especially in the places were terrorism is common. Should look there.


------


which acts of terrorism are most definitely the hand of the KGB? which are the best examples? find intersection


------



In the late 1960's and early 1970's, the PFLP, a Marxist organization, sought the overthrow of the Jordanian monarchy. The PFLP and PLO sought to exploit sectarian tensions in Jordan (I think? examples?), which, following Jordan's annexation of the West Bank, had a population of 2/3rd Palestinians and 1/3rd Jordanians.


As early as 1970, the KGB recruited infamous international terroist Waddie Haddad of the PFLP, at one point known as "the most dangerous man in the world." The Soviets also had relations with Yassir Arafat of the PLO--Arafat was previously involved with the Communists in Checklosovokia (what is the exten of his inolvement with Communists?) and, at one point travelled to Moscow (accompanying Nasser) disguised as an electrician. There, he recieved promises of weapons to support his guerillas. The extent of the KGB's infiltration and control of the PLO is a matter of speculation, although the Mitrokhin archives give some hints--the PLO's intelligence cheif Hani al-Hasan (and Arafat's most trusted adviser), for example, was a KGB agent (what is nature of his work for KGB?).

The KGB provided secret training for the PLO's guerillas (World was going our way), although the Mitrokhin archives suggest they placed greater value on their relationship with Haddad and the PFLP.

Following the battle of Karmesh (inflicated substantial casualites on a IDF raid on a PLO camp after PLO rocket attacks on Israel) and in the years leading up to Black September, the PLO grew greatly in strength and political power in Jordan, becoming a "state within a state." (examples of political blackmail by PLO?)


(PFLP was also engaged in terror operations with less impact during this time iirc).


The PLO's growing strength was an existential challenge for King Hussein and the Hashemite regime. The PLO patrolled with weapons and attempted to extract taxes from Jordan citizens, and essnetially occupied the major cities of ?? and Amman, Jordan's capital. Leading up to September 1970, King Hussein largely favored political solutions and concessions with the growing radical factions of the Palestinian liberation movement (examples?). (Nasser might have tried to convince him otherwise?). Growing discontent among Hussein's military and reports in the Western press (and Kissinger) of the Hashemite regime's declining legitimiacy as the PLO launched terrorist attacks from Jordan territory strained this approach. The tension came to a head when PFLP terrorists, under the direction of Wadie Haddad, Hijacked three passenger planes and redirected them to Dawson's airfeild in [city], Jordan. 
