http://www.nationalreview.com/article/276536/what-i-remember-nro-symposium


	 September 11 affected me more deeply than anything I have ever experienced, because I had been present at its conception. “In today’s world, when nuclear arms have made military force obsolete, terrorism should become our main weapon,” KGB chairman Yuri Andropov told me in 1972. Western Sovietologists generally limit themselves to recalling his brutal suppression of dissidence, his role in planning the 1968 invasion of Czechoslovakia, and his pressure on the Polish regime to impose martial law. But the leaders of the KGB community, when I was one of them, looked upon Andropov as the father of a new era of international terrorism that profoundly changed our lives.

	 Hijacked passenger planes became a KGB terrorist tool in 1969, two years after Andropov rose to head the KGB. Before I broke with Communism in 1978, he took credit for 16 major hijackings of Western passenger planes. They were all organized by his Department for Wet Affairs (“wet” being a euphemism for bloody) and carried out by Islamic terrorists trained by the KGB. No wonder Andropov became the first KGB officer to be enthroned in the Kremlin.


Pacepa says KGB trained airplane hijackers


	September 11 was the Pearl Harbor of our generation, and it had the same end result: It made the U.S. stronger. Today it is not politically correct to express gratitude to President Bush and Vice President Cheney, but we should. They kept our country free of terrorism after 9/11. While mourning our dead, let us also pay our respects to them and to our military and intelligence forces who defended us. Let us also hope that no intelligence officer will ever be prosecuted again in the U.S. for defending our country.


why would he say this? something off about Pacepa


------


why do 9/11?


getting U.S. to invade Iraq probably a major motivating factor, can see Russian propaganda raising alarm about Iraq, tying al-qaeda to Iraq.


another to pitch Arab world against the West

9/11 and terrorism often cited as reason to invade Iraq and other countries, but Arab world tended to believe conspiracies about 9/11:


https://www.quora.com/Are-there-any-conspiracy-theories-blaming-Russia-for-the-current-post-cold-war-state-of-the-world


Pew research saying most Arabs don't believe Arabs carried out 9/11

believe it was jews or inside job I guess? believe conspiracy theories?

with the way Rice and Bush handled it, gives credence to such theories.

And seems to be half true--way Condi Rice and Bush and others were acting, arguable that they wanted the attack to occur.


also started war in Afghanistan, longest U.S. war


basically just ties up U.S. in wars to fight the terrorists

should have skipped the war, offed Putin and been done with it


------


http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2347604/posts
	Lt. Col. Konstantin Preobrazhensky

	Mohammed Atta, the pilot of the first plane to crash into the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001, had met with a senior Iraqi intelligence agent in Prague, Czech Republic, five months before the attack. But Iraqi intelligence was just a client of Russia's intelligence service. It brings a new understanding to the fact that President Putin was the first foreign President to call President Bush on 9/11. One may conjecture that he knew in advance what was to happen.

Preobrazhensky basically saying Putin did 9/11


But "Iraqi intelligence was just a client of Russia's intelligence service"? doesn't sound right to me. Mitrokhin archives at least say Saddam was a tough nut to crack for KGB.


	...Russia Grows Muslim

	Putin continues the traditional Russian policy of giving privileges to the Muslim elite. Today's Russian Minister of Healthcare, Mikhail Zurabov, is a Chechen. His political agenda includes the total destruction of the Russian healthcare system, looking like revenge for the war in Chechnya. Putin shows no concern over that.

	Strategically Russia is surrendering to the Muslim world. The Russian population is declining rapidly, being undermined by 70 years of Communist experiment and the cold indifference of post-communist rulers. Annually, Russia is losing 900 thousand people who are being replaced by Muslims from the Caucasus and Central Asia. Islam is now the second-largest religion in Russia, where it may total up to 28 million adherents. Because of this, Russia was able to join the Organization of the Islamic Conference in 2003.

	Russia's great qualitative population change represents both a departure from the past and a strengthening link with it. The synergies between the history of Russia's national policies of terrorism and the radical Islamic terrorism that it is spreading around the world are natural partners that may severely impact on America's own future.


seems off? saying Russia being overrun by Muslims? "radical Islamic terrorism"


A white paper by him:

http://www.leninandsharia.com/docs/preobrazhensky.pdf

, intro seems sketchy. Solve the "radical Muslim problem," cites Rep. Peter King


The communists have considered Islam t
heir ally from the very beginning, 
because in the early 20
th
 century, Islam was the 
religion of the “oppressed 
people.” Support of Islam was consider
ed a part of Russian-based anti-
colonialism. It is very significant t
hat Vladimir Lenin in December 1917 addressed 
his second message, delivered just afte
r coming to power, to the “Toiling 
Muslims of Russia and East.” So they 
considered Muslims a reservoir of people 
for the world communist revolution.  


21 
...Muslims have heard Lenin's call. Many of 
them in the Russian Empire took an 
active part in the Communist Revolution.
 In some cities they formed Muslim 
Military-Revolutionary Committees. 
These Committees were engaged in 
overthrowing so-called Mus
lim- exploiting classes, t
he bourgeoisie and landlords 
associated with the old imperial regime
. For example, in 1918 the Bashkir’s 
Muslim Military Revolutionary Committee 
arrested the local bourgeoisie Bashkir 
government.

	...Both Soviet and Imperial Russia have always enjoyed the Muslim’s support. For example, a Muslim country was the first in the world to acknowledge the young Soviet Russia as early as in 1919. It was Afghanistan. 


seems to be a mischaracterization of the situation. Soviets had problems with internet dissent from Muslims, Afghan war turned Islamic world against them.

Helps to know your history...

this, Pacepa, others appears to be part of an influence operation playing to biases of some conservatives against Russia and Muslims

could also server to discredit the revelations of Litvinenko


	Kim Philby was a high-ranking member of British intelligence who worked as a double agent before defecting to Soviet Union in 1963. He served as both an NKVD and KGB operative. In 1934 he was recr
uited by Soviet intelligence on the 
basis of his devotion to Communism.  
What a strange combination! The Englis
h father became a devoted Muslim and 
the English son became a devoted Communist! 
 Like it was with Emir of Bukhara 
and his son! Maybe there is really some 
regularity in such a transformation.  


Muslims are commies? I don't get it

	...Daniel Pipes says in his famous article,
 “(The Islamic-Leftists) Allied Menace,” 
that, “Communists are atheists and leftists 
secular; Islamists execute atheists 
and enforce religious law. The Left exalts 
workers; Islamism privileges Muslims. 
One dreams of a worker's paradise, the ot
her of a caliphate. Socialists want 
socialism; Islamists accept the free 
market. Marxism imp
lies gender equality; 
Islamism oppresses women. Leftists despise
 slavery; some Is
lamists endorse it. 
As journalist Bret Stephens notes, the 
Left has devoted ‘the past four decades 
championing the very 
freedoms that Islam most opposes: sexual and 
reproductive freedoms, gay rights, 
freedom from religion, pornography and 
various forms of artistic trans
gression, pacifism and so on..” 


ya, sounds off
