

https://www.indymedia.org.uk/en/regions/london/2005/07/318875.html
	The correspondent: What will be the consequences of these acts of terrorism, in your opinion? Whether it is necessary to expect prosecution of the British Moslems on the part of the authorities and toughening of the political regime in the country?

	A. Litvinenko: As against Russia , where each act of terrorism is accompanied with general psychosis and hysteria, I have not seen anything of this kind in London . In London there was no panic (as the Russian mass-media asserted), all saving services worked precisely, anybody detained nobody in streets as “potential terrorists”, only because they had swarthy skin and dark color of hair. British politicians did not call “to wet everybody, who is not with us in toilets” from screens of TVs. And I am sure, that there will be no prosecutions of Moslems after the event. And nobody in Britain will toughen or cancel principles of democracy. 


says something? Russia using terrorism to create panic, inhibit freedoms? It is something they accuse U.S. of


------


https://www.economist.com/blogs/economist-explains/2016/07/economist-explains-17
	IT WOULD seem to be a sensible step: following a tragic act of terrorism, a state passes new anti-terrorism laws. Yet in this case, the state in question is Russia, where any expansion of the security services’ purview is cause for concern, and the measures, known as the “Yarovaya Laws”, are so draconian that even Kremlin-friendly forces in parliament balked at voting for them. Human-rights activists have been raising the alarm. The NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden, still in Moscow exile, dubbed it the “Big Brother law”. And Russia’s own telecoms industry has complained that it could put service providers out of business. Nonetheless, Vladimir Putin signed it into law this month, and the provisions will take effect this week. Just what makes the Yarovaya Laws so controversial? 

	The bill began ostensibly as a response to Islamic State’s (IS) downing of a Russian passenger jet over Egypt last autumn. Irina Yarovaya, a hawkish MP from Vladimir Putin’s ruling United Russia party, introduced sweeping measures to expand the power of the security services. Her initiative mashes together a range of repressive steps under the guise of fighting terrorism. One of the bill’s most controversial provisions makes the “failure to report a crime” into a crime itself. It also stiffens penalties for existing extremism statutes, and extends the list of crimes that minors (14 years or older) can be held accountable for. A second provision targets the digital space, requiring communications providers to store user data (including calls and messages) for at least six months, while making it accessible to the security services; it also gives the government the power to demand the keys to encrypted traffic. An initial draft of the legislation gave the government the power to strip citizenship from Russians serving in foreign armies or certain international organisations. It was stripped at the last minute, under heavy public pressure. 


pass Draconian bill after terrorist attack, lets the FSB spy on citizens with more legal freedom


used to arrest people for certain social media posts, article says worries law could be used to crack down on protestors


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/putin-signs-law-to-bolster-russian-surveillance-angering-edward-snowden/2016/07/07/4d307aca-443e-11e6-a76d-3550dba926ac_story.html
	The measures will impose tougher sanctions on mass unrest and limit proselytizing, to representatives of registered religious groups. Pacifist religious organizations, including Jehovah’s Witnesses, complain they have been targeted by laws aimed at violent groups.


------


https://www.nap.edu/read/11698/chapter/7
	Russia faces extraordinary danger in view of the considerable increase (by three to five times) in the quantity and gravity of terrorist attacks in comparison with the increase in the quantity and impact of natural and technogenic disasters. In this sense, the year 2004 was most significant, given the tragedies in Beslan and Moscow and on civilian aircraft, which involved the loss of hundreds of people, including children.


Basayev did a lot of his operations then


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beslan_school_siege
	The Beslan school siege (also referred to as the Beslan school hostage crisis or Beslan massacre)[2][3][4] started on 1 September 2004, lasted three days, involved the illegal imprisonment of over 1,100 people as hostages (including 777 children),[5] and ended with the death of at least 385 people. The crisis began when a group of armed Islamic Groups, mostly Ingush and Chechen, occupied School Number One (SNO) in the town of Beslan, North Ossetia (an autonomous republic in the North Caucasus region of the Russian Federation) on 1 September 2004. The hostage-takers were the Riyadus-Salikhin Battalion, sent by the Chechen warlord Shamil Basayev, who demanded recognition of the independence of Chechnya, and Russian withdrawal from Chechnya. On the third day of the standoff, Russian security forces stormed the building with the use of tanks, incendiary rockets and other heavy weapons.[6] At least 330 hostages were killed, including 186 children,[7][8] with a significant number of people injured and reported missing.

	The event led to security and political repercussions in Russia; most notably, it contributed to a series of federal government reforms consolidating power in the Kremlin and strengthening of the powers of the President of Russia.[9] 

------


https://www.hudson.org/research/13742-trump-must-stand-strong-against-putin
	There are also questions about terror in Russia. On April 3 a bomb exploded in the St. Petersburg metro, killing 14, many of them students. The bombing came a week after nationwide anticorruption protests in which young people played the main role. In the aftermath of the attack, Yuri Shvytkin, a Duma deputy, proposed a moratorium on public protests.
