https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wadie_Haddad

	...According to Vasili Mitrokhin, a senior KGB archivist who defected to the UK in 1992, in early 1970 Haddad was recruited by the KGB as an agent, codenamed NATSIONALIST. Thereafter, in deep secrecy the Soviets helped to fund and arm the PFLP. The KGB had warning of its major operations and almost certainly sanctioned the most significant, such as the September 1970 hijackings. Haddad remained a highly valued agent till his death in 1978.

	A letter by Yuri Andropov allegedly confirming Haddad's role as an agent was independently discovered in Soviet archives by Vladimir Bukovsky and has since been published


Haddad a key KGB agent, according to "the world was going our way"


------

http://www.nytimes.com/1978/04/02/archives/wadi-haddad-palestinian-hijacking-strategist-dies-directed-first.html
	Dr. Wadi Haddad, the strategist behind the Palestinian guerrilla movement's hijacking of airliners and a shadowy figure linked to international terrorist groups, has died of cancer in a hospital in East Germany, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine announced in Lebanon yesterday.


but east germany where they base a lot of their terroism ops out of


	...One of the most dramatic terrorist actions that Dr. Haddad planned was the hijacking of four airliners in September 1970 and the blowing up of three of them in the desert of Jordan and of the fourth at the Cairo airport.

	That gesture of defiance by the Palestinians to Egypt's acceptance of a ceasefire with Israel backfired and led to Jordanian suppression of the guerrilla movement in Jordan.


also trying to ruin the peace between Israel and egypt


	...In 1972 Dr. Haddad split with the Marxist‐oriented Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine in a dispute over airliner hijackings.


popular front marxist-oriented

	...Dr. Haddad had close ties with some of the most notorious international ter‐, rorist groups, including the Baader‐Meinhof gang in West Germany and the Red Army in Japan. He was also linked to the Venezuelan terrorist known as Carlos.


links to terrorists all over the world


	...Dr. Haddad was reported to have been the planner of the Tel Aviv airport attack by the Japanese Red Army in May 1972, in which the attackers pulled submachine guns and grenades from suitcases in the airport terminal and opened fire, killing nearly 30 people and wounding dozens.


lots of attacks on civilians, especially airline hijacking


	...Dr. Haddad's terrorist ventures were said to have been financed by Arab sectors opposed to any peaceful settlement with Israel, among them the Libyans.


RAYMOND H. ANDERSON says Libyans funded him


	...Some Palestinians reported that Dr. Haddad had hoped before his death to create a terrorist network in the United States.


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_Anderson_%28journalist%29
	Anderson joined the Navy at the age of 17. After his military service, he attended the University of Wisconsin–Eau Claire where he studied pre-journalism. He then went to Los Angeles and studied photojournalism. Eventually he attended the University of Wisconsin–Madison and received a bachelor's degree and master's degree in Russian. After his graduate work in Madison, Anderson received a Fulbright Scholarship and subsequently studied at the Slavic Institute in Denmark. He later took classes at Columbia University.

	When he returned from Denmark, Anderson began his career in journalism at a small newspaper in Virginia. It was there that he received a call from the New York Times. The paper was looking for a journalist who spoke fluent Russian. After a short trial period, the Times hired Anderson permanently. He worked at the New York Times for four years as a specialist on communism. Later, he worked as a general assignment reporter. Of his work, he said: "It's the best job in the world...being a general reporter for the New York Times in Manhattan. One moment you're doing an interview with Richard Nixon and the next afternoon you're covering a terrible homicide."[2]

	Eventually Anderson became a foreign correspondent. His first assignment was in Moscow. He spent three years in Russia, where he covered, among other things, the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia. While working in Moscow, Anderson played a central role in publishing Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov's essay "Reflections on Progress, Peaceful Coexistence, and Intellectual Freedom." Of the events that led to the publication, Pavel Litvinov, a peace activist, wrote:

    		Karel gave the essay to Ray Anderson, a young, inexperienced, but also intelligent and honorable correspondent of the New York Times...after some delay, Ray Anderson sent it to the United States, where it was published in full in the New York Times on July 22. Sakharov's essay became a world sensation. In 1968-1969 more than 18 million copies of it were published around the world in more than a dozen languages.[3]

	After his stint in Moscow, Anderson went to Cairo where he covered the War of Attrition. "At one point, President Gamal Abdel Nasser attacked Anderson personally on the air for breaking a story he did not want published."[4] Anderson also spent time as a foreign correspondent in Lebanon, Syria and most of Eastern Europe.

-----

http://pflp.ps/english/2014/03/29/remembering-comrade-dr-wadie-haddad-on-the-36th-anniversary-of-his-martyrdom/

"Comrade Haddad"

------

http://www.ynetnews.com/articles/0,7340,L-4874089,00.html
	It was Wadi Haddad, the head of operations at the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP). At the time, he was one of the most infamous and dangerous terrorists in the world, and was later believed to be at the top of the Israeli Mossad's hit list for over a decade. 


Haddad one of the most infamous terrorists in the world

	The Mitrokhin documents don't include Haddad's exact date of recruitment, but in late 1969, KGB chief Andropov wrote a top secret report ( Russian original) to then-Soviet Union leader Leonid Brezhnev, telling him about Haddad's recruitment under the codename "Nationalist."


some docs on Haddad's recruitment

 
