https://www.theguardian.com/world/2004/jun/23/chechnya.carolynnewheeler
	Chechen rebels launched their deadliest assault in years in a startling attack on the neighbouring region of Ingushetia early yesterday, killing as many as 57 people, including the acting interior minister and regional officials, and destroying government buildings.

	Thousands of Russian troops were searching last night for at least 100 fighters who attacked eight targets including the interior ministry in Nazran and police stations and border posts in Nazran, Karabulak and Sleptsovskaya.

	It was the deadliest attack in Ingushetia in a decade of Chechen conflict, and prompted Vladimir Putin, Russia's president, to undertake a lightning visit to the region and order extra troops to the republic.

	"Judging by what is going on here, the federal centre is not doing enough to defend the republic," Mr Putin said last night. 


Attack kills acting interior minister (of?), regional officials, police, civilians, Putin rushes to blame "federal centre" (government of Chechnya, apparently)

funny, reminds me of Benghazi, conspiriacies around it (did Putin want these people offed?)


so this is Russia's Benghazi

	Witnesses said the rebels had sought government targets, setting up checkpoints throughout the region and shooting dead the acting interior minister, Abukar Kostoyev, as he left his home. A local UN employee, Magomed Getagazov, was also killed, caught in the crossfire as he came home from work. 


these people killed for a reason?

	...The attack is likely to be seen as an embarrassment for the Kremlin, which has maintained that the military phase of the conflict is over and that the region is returning to normal. The attack came on Russia's Day of Remembering and Sorrow, the anniversary of Hitler's invasion in 1941. 


like it was meant to be a provocation


------

https://www.rferl.org/a/Five_Years_After_Nazran_Ingushetia_Still_Plagued_By_Militant_Violence/1758428.html
	Led by Chechen warlord Shamil Basayev, the heavily armed assailants targeted 15 official buildings in Ingushetia's main city as well as several towns and villages in the republic, which borders war-battered Chechnya.

	...In 1995, rebels led by Basayev stormed a hospital in the southern Russian town of Budyonnovsk, killing some 166 hostages. And in 1999, some 2,000 Chechen militants entered Daghestan and battled Russian troops for 10 days before retreating to Chechnya. 


so this article at least says raid led by Basayev, done this kind of thing before


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2004_Nazran_raid
	The Nazran raid was a large-scale raid carried out in the Republic of Ingushetia, Russia, on the night of June 21–22, 2004, by a large number of mostly Chechen and Ingush militants led by the Chechen commander Shamil Basayev. Basayev's main goal, besides capturing a large cache of weapons, was a show of strength


Raid led by Basayev

Maskhadov claimed responsibility for attack, but https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aslan_Maskhadov says he opposes Basayev

or I guess work together but disagree?

Basayev said to support increasing radical islam, Maskhadov opposed

	Maskhadov was one of the main commanders in the Battle of Grozny (1999–2000) along with Shamil Basayev, Ruslan Gelayev, Ibn Al-Khattab, Aslambek Ismailov and Khunkarpasha Israpilov.

	...Although he initially denied responsibility for the 2004 Nazran raid, in which 98 police officers/troops were killed, in July 2004 Maskhadov publicly accepted responsibility for the attacks. In the same month, Maskahdov promised similar attacks would happen, and vowed that the winner of Chechnya's upcoming presidential election would be illegitimate and would be attacked if necessary.


interesting, initially denied responsibility, then accepted responsibility and promised more.

	On 15 January 2005, Maskhadov issued a special order to stop all military operations except those in self-defense, both inside and outside Chechnya, until the end of February (the date marking the anniversary of the Stalin's Vainakh deportations of 1944) as a gesture of good will, and again called for a negotiated end to the Chechen conflict. Umar Khambiev, his designated negotiator, said that the separatists were no longer seeking independence, but only "guarantees for the existence of the Chechen nation".[17] This surprise, unilateral ceasefire was supported by Basayev but flatly rejected by the Russian and pro-Russian leaders who, once again, refused to negotiate


maybe Maskhadov not Russian intel? making the Russian leadership look bad

FSB said to have killed him


------


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2004/jun/23/chechnya.carolynnewheeler
	...No group has claimed responsibility, but a Russian television crew spoke with rebels at a border crossing who called themselves the Martyrs' Brigade and who said: "We have shot everyone here".

	Ahmed Zakayev, a top aide to the Chechen rebel leader Aslan Maskhadov, said his faction was not behind the attack, but added: "I am certain that there were units of Chechen volunteers who took part."

	He said the Ingush could also have been involved, pointing to their disaffection with the "destruction" wrought by Russian forces in Ingushetia. He said the Kremlin's resort to force to solve problems in the north Caucasus risked a wider conflagration.

	Alu Alkhanov, the Kremlin-supported candidate for Chechnya's presidency, accused Mr Maskhadov and the rebel commander Shamil Basayev of masterminding the attack. 


no-one claimed responsibility at first, Maskhadov denies. But said to have publicly warned of an attack the day before--maybe the attack not what he expected?


Kremlin-supported guy blames Maskhadov and Basayev


who are "Martyrs' Brigade"?

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Riyad-us_Saliheen_Brigade_of_Martyrs

small terrorist group founded, led by Basayev, allied with Mujahideen


I guess Russian propagandists wanted people to think it was by Martyrs brigade? whether true or not

seems true


https://www.rferl.org/a/Five_Years_After_Nazran_Ingushetia_Still_Plagued_By_Militant_Violence/1758428.html

website posted a video showing Basayev taking weapons during the raid


a bit iffy--if the other video was faked, this one too? dunno if they have a lookalike or what

	Critics say Moscow inadvertently encouraged young men in Ingushetia and other North Caucasus regions to join the insurgency by closing its eyes to the brutal methods employed by federal forces in the region.

	In the poor, chiefly Muslim republic of Ingushetia, heavy-handed police tactics, combined with official corruption, rampant poverty, and a 75 percent unemployment rate provided Chechen militants with wide public support and a ready pool of recruits.

	RFE/RL's Sultanov says he saw many residents come out of their homes during the Nazran raid to cheer the militants.


and article sounds like Russian intel propaganda


https://www.rferl.org/a/1835269.html


one reason they'd want to always point to Basayev: to whip up anger against radical Islamic terrorism


------


maybe a problem with Nazran raid: why didn't the Russian army respond sooner? raid went on for two days

maybe a similar situation to Benghazi
