http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/24/middleeast/israel-syria-golan-heights-strike/index.html
	Israel strikes Syrian military near Golan Heights

	By Andrew Carey, CNN

	Updated 10:00 AM ET, Sun June 25, 2017

	 (CNN)Israel launched strikes on Syrian military positions Saturday, close to the two countries' disputed border in the Golan Heights, according to the Israel Defense Forces (IDF).

	The action was a response to what the IDF said were more than 10 projectiles fired into Israel from inside Syria. The IDF described the projectile fire as "errant," blaming it on internal fighting.

	Israeli aircraft targeted three positions from which the projectiles were fired, the IDF said. The strikes included hits on two tanks belonging to the Syrian regime.


So Israel started attacking Syrian military c. June 25


how often does Israel attack Syria regime?


------


http://nypost.com/2017/06/27/why-iran-and-israel-may-be-on-the-verge-of-conflict-in-syria/
	Why Iran and Israel may be on the verge of conflict — in Syria

	By Benny Avni

	June 27, 2017 | 8:45pm 


	...That’s because for three days in a row, mortar shells flew across the border onto the Israeli-controlled side of the Golan, putting war gawkers at too much risk.


so Assad started shelling Golan for some reason


	...Most likely, the shells overflew their real target: one of the sides in the increasingly heated battle in an area around Quneitra, a town divided between Israel and Syria. Various Sunni militias are entrenched in the area, and Syrian forces loyal to Bashar al-Assad are trying to clear them out.

	Control of the road between Quneitra and Dara to the south (where the uprising against Assad started six years ago) is key for the Syrian army — and even more so for its patrons in Tehran. By capturing this road, and the area east of Israel and north of Jordan, they can establish a land corridor from Iran, through Iraq, to Damascus and Syria’s neighbor, Lebanon.


Assad would want to take fight to Quneitra, but that city a part of Israel too

so Israel would oppose this offensive in particular? Assad seemed very aggressive, like he doesn't care about Israeli intervention


	The larger concern for Israeli policymakers here is that Iran and its allied militias, already in control of south Lebanon, are trying to cement a beachhead in Syria.

	And that’s exactly what’s happening. “Iran is attempting to use the civil war to establish air force and naval bases in Syria,” Israel’s Energy Minister Yuval Steinitz told Israel Radio this week.


So Israel vocal about Iran intentions to establish bases in Syria

would be a pretext for Israeli intervention?


	It’s not just Syria. IDF intelligence chief Herzi Halevi said Iran is also building arms factories in Lebanon, a country now dominated by its local proxy, Hezbollah. The mullahs, he said, similarly use Yemeni proxies, the Houthis, to manufacture weapons in that strategically located country next door to Saudi Arabia.


So basically saying Iran upping aggression and its on Israel's doorstep


	...US forces are reportedly also operating there in growing numbers. Better yet, President Trump has made clear his predecessor’s romance with Tehran was just a fling. The administration has been warning Iran to watch its step as it stomps around the Middle East.

	That may have been behind the seemingly-out-of-the-blue White House announcement Monday, confirmed by the Pentagon Tuesday, that it’s detected signs Syria is preparing a new chemical attack. Trump officials warned Assad would pay a “heavy price” for using chemical weapons again.


so Trump's "tough on Iran" stance is all talk


	...The region is on edge. A victory over ISIS seems close now, but if Iran emerges on top, a wider and more vicious war may ensue, with dire consequences for everyone, including America.

	For Israelis, meanwhile, such an outcome could be much scarier than what happened this week to a few Golan tourists that temporarily lost a front-row seat for watching the war below.


hmmm


http://nypost.com/2016/12/29/obamas-hypocrisy-when-it-comes-to-interference-in-our-politics/
	By Benny Avni

	Obama’s hypocrisy when it comes to interference in our politics

	...Remember the summer’s referendum in Britain about leaving the European Union? Days before Brits went to the polls, Obama flew over to London to threaten that if Brits approved Brexit, they’d be headed to “the back of the queue” among US trading partners. Shortly after his preferred side lost, Obama did a 180, making his initial threat as empty as a Syrian red line and rendering it mere political grandstanding.

	Yet nowhere has Obama been more obsessed with defeating a politician as in Israel. Like Captain Ahab, he’s all-in pursuing his Moby-Dick, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The hunt continues down to the last minute of his presidency.

	Hoping to force Israel to help him justify an unearned Nobel, Obama tried and failed to defeat Bibi in two Israeli elections, in 2009 and again in 2015 — sending to Israel a battery of political consultants, pollsters, funds, you name it. A congressional inquiry over the summer found that the Obama administration spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to boost an anti-Bibi campaign in Israel run by a former Obama campaign staffer.

	Then, Secretary of State John Kerry gave a speech bemoaning the fact that Obama didn’t get the Israeli government he wanted.


heh

this guy Mossad?


http://nypost.com/2017/01/19/the-recipe-for-foreign-policy-greatness-starts-with-fdr/
	The recipe for foreign-policy greatness starts with FDR

	By Benny Avni


or KGB?


http://nypost.com/2016/11/22/how-trump-can-save-syria-without-an-invasion/
	How Trump can save Syria — without an invasion

	By Benny Avni

	November 22, 2016 | 8:22pm

	On the same day this week, a prospective US ambassador to the United Nations warned President-elect Donald Trump against US military involvement in Syria while the current UN ambassador offered empty threats of future “justice” for the bloodshed.

	Trump should ignore both approaches. Instead, he should start working on plans to ease the suffering of Syrian civilians and to help shape the country’s postwar future. The Syrian civil war impacts too many American interests for us to sit this one out.

	That is essentially what Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii), an Iraq war veteran widely considered a candidate for the UN post, proposed in a meeting with Trump on Monday.

	“I shared with him my grave concerns that escalating the war in Syria by implementing a so-called no-fly/safe zone would be disastrous for the Syrian people, our country and the world,” the former Bernie Sanders supporter said after her Trump Tower sit-down. 


hmmm


------

http://www.newsweek.com/us-military-warship-israel-spy-syria-chemical-weapons-629897
	Retracted: U.S. Military Sending Warship to Israel, Spy Planes to Syria After Chemical Weapons Report
	By Newsweek Staff On 6/28/17 at 6:08 PM

	Newsweek has retracted and unpublished this story. The article contained factual inaccuracies and did not conform to Newsweek's editorial standards. We apologize for the errors.


what


-----


http://www.aljazeera.com/news/2017/04/deadly-israeli-strikes-hit-syria-quneitra-province-170423055729975.html
	23 April 2017

	Deadly Israeli strikes target Syria's Quneitra province

	Deaths of fighters reported as government positions in Golan Heights are targeted for second time in recent days.

	Israeli forces have attacked pro-Syrian government groups in the countryside of Quneitra, two days after carrying out similar strikes in the same region.

	An Al Jazeera correspondent said Sunday's attacks targeted fighters loyal to the Syrian government in the Naba al-Fawwar area of Quneitra province, which is located in the 30 percent of the Golan Heights that is not under Israeli occupation.

	Three fighters from the pro-government National Defence Forces (NDF) were killed and at least two more were wounded in the attack, an NDF official told AFP news agency.


So Israel had been attacking Assad before, a few months before the strikes near the end of June


	...The Israeli army said on Friday that it had targeted positions inside Syria in retaliation for mortar fire that hit the northern part of the occupied Golan Heights.

	"The Israeli army targeted the source of the fire," an army statement said without giving further details.


So same thing, returning mortar fire


	...Technically at war

	The Syrian government labels rebels and other armed groups "terrorists" and accuses Israel of backing them.

	Israel occupied 1,200sq km of the Golan from Syria in the 1967 Middle East war and later annexed it in a move never recognised by the international community.

	About 510sq km of the Golan are under Syrian control.

	The two countries are still technically at war, although the border remained largely quiet for decades until 2011, when the Syrian conflict broke out.

	The Israeli side is hit sporadically by what are usually deemed to be stray rounds, and Israel has recently taken to opening fire in retaliation.


So Israel technically at war with Syria, the retaliating for mortar fire is a recent development c. April 2017


------


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-israel-syria-idUSKBN19G0Q6
	June 25, 2017 / 4:20 PM / 23 days ago
	Israel attacks Syrian posts after cross-border fire from Syria


	...Syria's military later said in a statement that Israel had attacked one of its military posts in support of terrorist groups, as it describes the jihadist rebels it is fighting in that area.

	It was the second day in a row that errant fire from Syria drew Israeli retaliation.

	Israel has largely stayed on the sidelines of Syria's civil war, keeping watch over the Golan Heights frontier and occasionally carrying out air strikes or returning fire if there is a specific threat. It captured the Golan in a 1967 Middle East war.

	Intense fighting has rocked the Quneitra province of Syria, adjacent to the Golan Heights, since rebels there launched an attack on Saturday. 


Israel had mostly stayed on the sidelines but it seems this has changed things


Assad and Hezbollah was making a push for territory near Israel


http://www.jpost.com/Arab-Israeli-Conflict/Syria-warns-Israel-Further-attacks-will-have-serious-repercussions-497912

 	Syria warns Israel: Further attacks will have serious repercussions
	ByJPOST.COM STAFF
	June 25, 2017 23:46


escalating tensions?


so this could be one reason for the ceasefire, if they thought Israel was about to intervene


------


http://www.jpost.com/Arab-Israeli-Conflict/Russia-slams-alleged-Israeli-strike-on-Syria-489233
	Russia slams alleged Israeli strike on Syria
	By Anna Ahronheim
	April 28, 2017

	The Kremlin condemned an alleged Israeli strike against Damascus International Airport on Thursday, urging Israel and other countries to avoid carrying out any action that could heighten tensions in the region.

	“We continue to consider that all countries need to refrain from any kind of actions that lead to an increase in tension in this already restive region and call for respect of the sovereignty of Syria,” said Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov.

	...“Gross violations of Syrian sovereignty, no matter how they are justified, are unacceptable,” she said, adding that “Moscow condemns acts of aggression against Syria.”


last time Russia was upset at Israel, giving a "warning"


	Katz, who is in the United States meeting with senior officials, made the comment after Arab media reported that Israel attacked a Hezbollah arms hub near Damascus airport with five sorties at around 3:25 a.m. No injuries were reported, but a large fireball was seen by locals.

	Iranian Defense Minister Brig.-Gen. Hossein Dehghan also condemned the alleged strike and Syria’s official news agency SANA stated that Israel had fired “several missiles” from inside the Golan Heights “in a desperate attempt to raise the collapsed morale of terrorist groups due to the Syrian Army’s blows, and this aggression will not dissuade the army from continuing the war.”

	According to an intelligence source who spoke to Reuters, the arms depot handles a large amount of weapons supplied by Iran, which regularly sends weapons to Syria via commercial and military cargo planes to Hezbollah and other Iranian- backed militias fighting for the regime of Bashar Assad.

	Iran has been accused of using commercial planes to ferry troops and weapons into Syria. In 2011, Iran Air was singled out by the US Treasury in part due to its role in transporting “potentially dangerous Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps-related cargo” as well as “missile or rocket components” to Syria. Sanctions against the airline were dropped in 2015 as part of the nuclear deal, but there continue to be indications that the airline flies in weapons and troops to the wartorn country.


interesting, Israel blew up an Iranian arms cache?

	...While the IDF neither confirms nor denies the strikes, on Tuesday in a rare admission a senior officer said that last month Israel destroyed some 100 Syrian missiles, many of which were due to be delivered to Hezbollah.

	On Wednesday, Defense Minister Avigdor Liberman, who is in Moscow for a security conference, said that Israel is concerned about Iranian activity in Syria and that Tehran is using Syria as a base for arms smuggling to Hezbollah in Lebanon. Israel, he said, “will not allow Iranian and Hezbollah forces to be amassed on the Golan Heights border.” 


So what could Iran get a land bridge to Lebanon and start putting pressure on Israel or build-up for an attack? does that even make sense?


but the conflict could be a way to get arms to Hezbollah in Lebanon which would be more "plausibly deniable" I guess.


but Israel suggests Assad (Iran?) wants to invade Golan heights


-------


https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/oct/08/iran-iraq-syria-isis-land-corridor
	Amid Syrian chaos, Iran’s game plan emerges: a path to the Mediterranean

	Militias controlled by Tehran are poised to complete a land corridor that would give Iran huge power in the region

 	Martin Chulov

	Saturday 8 October 2016 15.30 EDT
	First published on Saturday 8 October 2016 15.25 EDT

	Not far from Mosul, a large military force is finalising plans for an advance that has been more than three decades in the making. The troops are Shia militiamen who have fought against the Islamic State, but they have not been given a direct role in the coming attack to free Iraq’s second city from its clutches.

	Instead, while the Iraqi army attacks Mosul from the south, the militias will take up a blocking position to the west, stopping Isis forces from fleeing towards their last redoubt of Raqqa in Syria. Their absence is aimed at reassuring the Sunni Muslims of Mosul that the imminent recapture of the city is not a sectarian push against them. However, among Iraq’s Shia-dominated army the militia’s decision to remain aloof from the battle of Mosul is being seen as a rebuff.

	Yet among the militias’ backers in Iran there is little concern. Since their inception, the Shia irregulars have made their name on the battlefields of Iraq, but they have always been central to Tehran’s ambitions elsewhere. By not helping to retake Mosul, the militias are free to drive one of its most coveted projects – securing an arc of influence across Iraq and Syria that would end at the Mediterranean Sea.


sounds like they wanted the bridge to Lebanon

and I guess build naval bases there or something and have more influence, could build the bases in Syria too


but need Iraq for it all to be connected

	The strip of land to the west of Mosul in which the militias will operate is essential to that goal. After 12 years of conflict in Iraq and an even more savage conflict in Syria, Iran is now closer than ever to securing a land corridor that will anchor it in the region – and potentially transform the Islamic Republic’s presence on Arab lands. “They have been working extremely hard on this,” said a European official who has monitored Iran’s role in both wars for the past five years. “This is a matter of pride for them on one hand and pragmatism on the other. They will be able to move people and supplies between the Mediterranean and Tehran whenever they want, and they will do so along safe routes that are secured by their people, or their proxies.”


------


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-middle-east-33281739


something off about this article? not sure


------


http://www.aljazeera.com/news/2017/06/fighting-intensifies-syrian-golan-heights-170626033648183.html
	After Israeli air strikes hit the area on Saturday, Syrian state news agency SANA accused Israel of supporting the Levant Liberation Committee, formerly known as al-Nusra Front.

	Israel has been occupying roughly 70 percent of the Golan Heights since the 1967 Middle East war.

	Since the outbreak of fighting in the Golan region in 2012, it has carried out sporadic air strikes, mostly targeting government forces and their allies.

	In recent months, President Bashar al-Assad's forces, backed by Russian air power, have gained ground in Syria from opposition fighters and armed groups.


------


https://www.wsj.com/articles/israel-gives-secret-aid-to-syrian-rebels-1497813430
	Israel Gives Secret Aid to Syrian Rebels
	Fighters near Golan Heights in Syria receive cash and humanitarian help
	By Rory Jones in Tel Aviv,

	Noam Raydan in Beirut and Suha Ma’ayeh in Amman, Jordan
	June 18, 2017 3:17 p.m. ET 


looks like a copy:


http://www.mesop.de/israel-gives-secret-aid-to-syrian-rebels-fighters-near-golan-heights-in-syria-receive-cash-and-humanitarian-help/

	June 18, 2017 3:17 p.m. ET – Israel has been regularly supplying Syrian rebels near its border with cash as well as food, fuel and medical supplies for years, a secret engagement in the enemy country’s civil war aimed at carving out a buffer zone populated by friendly forces. The Israeli army is in regular communication with rebel groups and its assistance includes undisclosed payments to commanders that help pay salaries of fighters and buy ammunition and weapons, according to interviews with about half a dozen Syrian fighters. Israel has established a military unit that oversees the support in Syria—a country that it has been in a state of war with for decades—and set aside a specific budget for the aid, said one person familiar with the Israeli operation.

	Israel has in the past acknowledged treating some 3,000 wounded Syrians, many of them fighters, in its hospitals since 2013 as well as providing humanitarian aid such as food and clothing to civilians near the border during winter. But interviews with half a dozen rebels and three people familiar with Israel’s thinking reveal that the country’s involvement is much deeper and more coordinated than previously known and entails direct funding of opposition fighters near its border for years.

	“Israel stood by our side in a heroic way,” said Moatasem al-Golani, spokesman for the rebel group Fursan al-Joulan, or Knights of the Golan. “We wouldn’t have survived without Israel’s assistance.”

	Israel’s aim is to keep Iran-backed fighters allied to the Syrian regime, such as the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah, away from the 45-mile stretch of border on the divided Golan Heights, the three people said.


that makes sense

who's leaking this?


	But its support for rebels risks heightening tension with President Bashar al-Assad’s government, which has long accused Israel of helping rebel groups. Mr. Assad has said Israel supports rebel groups and launches airstrikes in Syrian territory to undermine his hold on power. Israel has said it doesn’t favor any one outcome in the civil war.


you'd think Israel would favor the outcome where Iran and Syria don't mass troops on their borders...


	Aid as a Defense

	Israel has been providing Syrian rebels with cash and supplies in a secret engagement to carve out a friendly buffer zone. The threat of a permanent presence of Iranian and Hezbollah forces on the Syrian side of the strategic plateau could drag Israel’s military further into a conflict that it has watched warily but mostly stayed out of since it began in 2011. Israeli officials haven’t ruled out such an escalation at a time when they are cultivating other alliances with Arab states against their common enemy—Iran.


so this is flat-out saying Israel planned on intervening


where is this from? not in wsj article? not in MSN repost:


http://www.msn.com/en-us/news/other/israel-gives-secret-aid-to-syrian-rebels/ar-BBCQtib
	The person familiar with Israel’s assistance confirmed that cash moves across the border but said it goes for humanitarian purposes. However, rebels interviewed said they use the cash to pay fighters’ salaries and to buy weapons and ammunition—something the Israeli military wouldn’t comment on.


so supporting the rebels there, basically


	Iran and its Lebanese proxy Hezbollah have played a major role in propping up Mr. Assad’s forces. That help, as well as significant military intervention by Russia, has given the regime the upper hand in the multisided war.


also pointing out Assad being propped up by Russia, Iran


so basically making it look like a proxy war between Israel and Iran


and then maybe a proxy war between U.S. and Russia


except now Trump siding with Russia


	Given the ascendancy of Iran in the war, Israel now fears it will establish control of a strip of land in Syria and Iraq that could be used to transport weapons to military bases in southern Lebanon and the Syrian side of the Golan.


worried about bridge to Lebanon


	Israeli officials have several times accused the Syrian regime and its Iranian and Shiite allies of planning attacks against Israel from Syrian side of the Golan. By contrast, Israeli officials have pointed out that rebels in that area have never tried to attack.


Israel concerned about invasion by Assad and Iran, I guess of Golan? still "technically at war"


maybe Assad butthurt about Golan


fighting over territory like this seems like the kind of thing Okhrana likes to set up...


what's the ultiamte goal of the Syrian war for them anyway? seems like it mostly destablized the world, which is how they used it, "weaponized immigration"

have to wonder if the humanitarian crisis is the end goal itself


	...The Israeli army has occasionally intervened in the Syrian war by launching airstrikes to stop suspected Iranian arms shipments bound for Hezbollah in Lebanon.

	This effort to set up a de facto buffer zone in Syria is reminiscent of another Israeli scheme to protect its northern border by carving out a so-called security zone in south Lebanon during that country’s civil war in the 1970s and 1980s. Known as the “Good Fence” policy, it preceded an Israeli invasion of south Lebanon in 1982 that helped spawn Hezbollah. Hezbollah battled the Israelis until they withdrew in 2000.


author strongly suggesting Israel plans an invasion


also, blaming Israel for Hezbollah?


	...“It’s a matter of interests,” said the person familiar with Israeli policy. Israel offers the humanitarian support and in return gets a “buffer zone” of local militias defending themselves.


"interests"


	...The group had just launched an offensive against regime forces in southwestern Quneitra province, which encompasses the Syrian side of the Golan, according to the spokesman Mr. Golani, who uses a nom de guerre.


Israeli-backed rebels launced offensive in Quneitra c June 18


	The fighters carried wounded comrades to a border point where they were met by Israeli soldiers speaking Arabic, said Mr. Golani. Relatives of the wounded men pleaded for help and ambulances soon arrived to take the injured to hospitals in Israel. The moment was a turning point that opened communication between Israel and the moderate faction of opposition fighters, he said.

	For Mr. Golani, the contact was also bittersweet. His cousin had died shortly before the encounter, killed by shrapnel that sliced open his stomach. He said he believes his cousin would have survived with surgery.


-----

Rory Jones work for anyone?


https://twitter.com/RoryWSJ


https://twitter.com/RoryWSJ/status/879571199168327680
	The surveillance state, long feared in the West, is a reality in China


https://twitter.com/hxhassan/status/877414232614203392
	I have a feeling that Qatari-funded media will be too reluctant to attack Saudi Arabia over MBS crown-princeship.


https://twitter.com/AnshelPfeffer/status/876791825004154880
	Many Israelis feel their government should be doing much more for Syrian rebels. UN thinks Israel's doing too much.


https://twitter.com/aarondmiller2/status/872409656450326528
	Isis attack will only deepen sectarian tensions; harden Iran's fear of US-Saudi collusion; further suck US into region's broken politics.


https://twitter.com/TamerELG/status/864511280849313792
	May 16	

	McMaster might be the first US official to publicly confirm that ISIS did indeed take down that Russian airliner over Egypt in 2015...


https://twitter.com/dannydanon/status/855087879151902720
	I just told the @UN Security Council: Where there is terror, where there is death, there is Iran.


https://twitter.com/EmilyBLandau/status/852049694180216832
	His statements were really stupid, embarrassingly so. But to call him 'holocaust denier' on that basis is also stupid, & weakens critique


https://twitter.com/mawilner/status/850279392127340545
	#Russia operated out of a base the Pentagon says was used to store an illegal stockpile of sarin— the very weapon Moscow promised to remove.


https://twitter.com/YaakovLappin/status/849512081141489664
	Israel's assessment was that Assad regime cheated international inspectors & kept some Sarin chemical weapon, @bogie_yaalon tells 103 FM.


https://twitter.com/sfrantzman/status/842338705155227651
	So @BuzzFeed discovers a crazy story linking #Israelis, democrats, journalists in bizarre scam;


https://twitter.com/RoryWSJ/status/832170796130897921
	Spies Keep Intelligence From Donald Trump on Leak Concerns...


https://www.wsj.com/articles/israel-leans-closer-to-ultra-orthodox-jews-upsets-u-s-groups-1498681750
	Israel Leans Closer to Ultra-Orthodox Jews, Upsets U.S. Groups
	Prime Minister Netanyahu suspends plan to let Reform and Conservative movements of Judaism help administer the Western Wall shrine
	By Rory Jones

	June 28, 2017 4:29 p.m. ET 


https://www.wsj.com/articles/charity-group-disputes-israeli-allegations-that-employee-siphoned-funds-to-hamas-1472499809
	Charity Group Disputes Israeli Allegations That Employee Siphoned Funds to Hamas
World Vision investigated and dismissed claims of financial impropriety by Mohammed El-Halabi
By Rory Jones
	Aug. 29, 2016 3:43 p.m. ET 

	TEL AVIV—Christian charity World Vision investigated and dismissed allegations of financial impropriety of an employee just months before Israeli authorities arrested the same person for allegedly diverting the group’s funds to Hamas’s military operations, according to the chief executive of World Vision’s international arm.


https://www.wsj.com/articles/hamas-to-revise-anti-israel-stance-in-its-charter-official-says-1493649310
	Hamas Drops Call for Israel’s Destruction
Palestinian Islamist movement, which rules Gaza, also formally accepts notion of a Palestinian state in territories Israel captured in 1967.
	By Rory Jones in Tel Aviv and
	Abu Bakr Bashir in Gaza City


https://twitter.com/RoryWSJ/status/849149711735037952
	Israel not distinguishing between Hamas and the Gazan people, says Alex Fishman in Yedioth.


http://ntelvets.com/washington-post-russias-interference-in-us-election-was-the-crime-of-the-century/
	If Zionist outlets such as the Washington Post were trying to present serious facts, then they would have almost certainly slammed the Israeli regime for supporting terrorist cells in places like Syria. Even the Wall Street Journal, of all places, has reported last Sunday that it is no secret that Israel is helping the bad guys in Syria.[9] Why doesn’t anyone call this diabolical enterprise one of the biggest crimes of the century? Why haven’t the Washington Post and even the Wall Street Journal taken the Israeli regime to task and asked them to stop?


lol wut

[9] is the Rory Jones Israel backing rebels article


Jones is suspicious, if a Russian spy more low-key about it


http://www.israelnationalnews.com/News/News.aspx/222125
	In an interview on Dec. 16th, 2016, Baruch Gordon, Director of Development for Bet El Institutions, conveyed to Wall Street Journal Correspondent Rory Jones that prominent activists and intellectuals on both the Palestinian and Israeli side say that a two-state solution is no longer a possibility. “It’s dead,” they say. Examples that Gordon cites are listed below.

	That interview was incorporated into the WSJ Dec. 20th, 2016 article entitled “Trump Transition Team Plays Down…” and here’s the quote from Gordon:

		“We are in a historic period that’s about redefining the debate,” Baruch Gordon, the Director of Development at Bet El Institutions, said in an interview. “The debate is no longer about the Palestinians.”

	Gordon double checked his recording of the interview and then wrote this letter to the editor of the WSJ:

    Dear Editor,

    While I suspect no malicious intent, in the Dec. 20th “Trump Transition Team Plays Down Ties…” story, I was misquoted as saying, “the [new] debate [in Israel] is no longer about Palestinians,” implying Israelis can ignore them. In the interview with your correspondent (audio posted here: http://tinyurl.com/baruchgordoninterview), I said the opposite: “the debate is no longer about a Palestinian State yes or no, but [about] freedom and equality for Arabs - to what extent.” The discourse in Israeli society remains all about the Palestinians - but is now focusing on the question of to what extent shall the Palestinians have freedom, equality and obligations, in a one-state solution of extending Israeli sovereignty over the West Bank, which is the new, preferred paradigm of activist leaders on both sides.

    Thank you for the clarification,

    Baruch Gordon
    Bet El Institutions, Israel

	Here is the relevant audio clip of the WSJ interview: http://tinyurl.com/baruchgordoninterview

	The Wall Street Journal’s Rory Jones was responsive and immediately changed the online version of the article to reflect the accurate quote.


fuck this guy


trying to divide Isreal, Palestine?


seems like he's KGB


------


so it looks like KGB leaks that Israel supporting rebels near Golan, borders, then also insinuates that Israel planning an invasion

which happens June 18th


then later that month back-and-forth between Israel and Assad, Israel blows up some Assad military assets

then the ceasefire a few days later


so would the ceasefire make sense as a way to curtail Israeli fight against Assad? stopped the fighting in the region Israel has influence, advantage


not sure if Israel wanted to invade


but Russia and Iran basically already all-in for Assad, so an Israeli invasion would only make things worse for Assad I think?


not sure how that would work with Russian military directly supporting Assad


------


http://www.timesofisrael.com/israeli-minister-the-time-has-come-to-assassinate-assad/
	Israeli minister: ‘The time has come’ to kill Bashar Assad
	Yoav Galant says revelation the Syrian president is executing prisoners and burning their bodies ‘crosses a red line’
	By Judah Ari Gross May 16, 2017, 12:14 pm

	An Israeli minister called for the assassination of Syrian President Bashar Assad on Tuesday, saying he “does not have a place in this world.”

	Speaking at a conference outside Jerusalem, Housing and Construction Minister Yoav Galant, a retired IDF general, said that in light of recent allegations that Assad’s regime carried out mass executions and burned the bodies of the victims, he had to be killed.

	“The reality of the situation in Syria is that they are executing people, using directed chemical attacks against them, and the latest extreme — burning their corpses, something we haven’t seen in 70 years,” Galant said, in a reference to the Holocaust.

	The minister said Assad’s actions in Syria amount to nothing less than a “genocide,” with “hundreds of thousands killed.”


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoav_Galant

strange things going on with Galant?


http://www.jpost.com/Israel/Who-is-Yoav-Galant
	A strong, charismatic commander with vast field and combat experience, Galant is respected throughout the IDF.

	A recent highlight of his career was Operation Cast Lead in the winter of 2008/9, which he planned and directed.

	While the operation sparked harsh international criticism, as demonstrated by the UN’s Goldstone Report, Galant can be credited with overseeing an operation that has fundamentally changed the reality along the border with the Gaza Strip. While rockets are occasionally still fired into Israel, there is today – some 20 months after the operation – unprecedented quiet in the South.

	Galant’s detractors accuse him of becoming politicized during the period he spent as Sharon’s military secretary, noting the close ties he forged there with some of the prime minister’s other close associates such as Eyal Arad, the public relations consultant whose company’s logo appeared on the apparently forged “Galant Document.”


not sure who's side Galant is on, but maybe the assassination threat carries weight?


------


http://thehill.com/blogs/pundits-blog/international-affairs/332400-no-assad-is-not-good-for-israel-and-he-never-will-be
	No, Assad is not good for Israel, and he never will be
	By Rabbi Shmuley Boteach, opinion contributor - 05/08/17 

	Yes, ISIS is a real danger, and yes, Assad might serve as a bulwark against it. But not at the price of gassing children.

	I’m surprised that an IDF chief of staff doesn’t understand this. Israel is strong primarily because it has morality on its side, which is what brings people of goodwill throughout the world to its defense. It can never lose the moral argument.

	...FDR has a claim to being the greatest president of the 20th century because it was he who defeated Hitler. But his legacy will be forever stained, even among progressives, by his refusal to take decisive action to stop the Holocaust.

	I recognize that Israel’s options in Syria are limited. Any action the Jewish state takes against Assad will be interpreted by many in the Arab world as an aggressive rather than a compassionate action. But I also understand that Israel’s voice is still robust.

	No senior IDF officer should be on the wrong side of history.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shmuley_Boteach
	Boteach has faced widespread criticism from fellow rabbis across his career, especially following the release of his book Kosher Jesus. It was denounced as "heresy" by some rabbis. Jacob Immanuel Schochet, a Canadian rabbi, stated that the book "poses a tremendous threat to the Jewish community."[11]

	Boteach also faced criticism by the Jewish community for his views on love and sex in his book Kosher Sex: A Recipe for Passion and Intimacy, stating that lust is more important than love. He has said "lust is the pinnacle of holiness," and "if you put love and lust together, love stands no chance."[12]


	...Boteach hosted a weekly radio show on WABC called The Shmuley Show.[16] He has made numerous guest appearances on The Oprah Winfrey Show and other television programs, including The Dr. Phil Show[17] (as a relationship and marriage expert),[18]The Dr. Oz Show, and others[19] Boteach hosted his own show on the Oprah XM Satellite Radio Network and his writings[20] and quotes[21] are published on the Oprah.com website.

	...In the 1990s, Boteach became a friend and unofficial spiritual advisor to Michael Jackson.[7] Some Jewish commentators were critical. "Consorting with Michael Jackson might get Shmuley's name in the papers, but it's doubtful it will really encourage Jews to go to synagogue on Friday night", wrote Benjamin Soskis in Slate.[7] Boteach was a vocal supporter of Jackson and "dismissive of suggestions that Jackson's relationships with children have been anything other than wholesome. Why would anyone believe those charges? They said anyone who spends that amount of time with kids has to be sick. Well, that's not an indictment of Michael Jackson, that's an indictment of our society!"

	...Boteach is known for his flamboyance and self-promotion. In a comment he later described as only having been sarcastic,[26] he was reported as saying "God gave 10 commandments at Sinai, and the 11th commandment, which they expunged but which has come down orally, is 'Thou shalt do anything for publicity and recognition.'"[39]

	Boteach is supportive of Israel, and critical of American policy towards the country. Boteach has argued that the Obama administration is "bullying" Israel, arguing that U.S. Middle Eastern policy is "scandalous" and "disgusting".

	...Boteach ran for the U.S. House of Representatives in the 2012 elections. He supports gay marriage and recommended making family counseling tax deductible.[45] He received the endorsement of then-House Majority Leader Eric Cantor in April.


this guy KGB?


what are they trying to do here?


like they are trying to discredit Israeli opposition to Assad or something?


------


http://www.newsweek.com/israel-secretly-paying-salaries-syrian-rebels-golan-heights-627155
	Israel has directly intervened in the Syrian civil war only when it feels that its national security is threatened. It has struck Syrian regime outposts or bases in retaliation for any action against it, such as the transfer of arms from Iran to the country. Damascus and Hezbollah accuse it of carrying out targeted assassinations of key Hezbollah commanders based in Syria. Israel does not comment on the operations.

	Hezbollah and Israel fought a one-month war in 2006 but tensions have remained since and the Israeli military elite has become increasingly concerned by a growing Hezbollah presence in Syria where the group supports Assad. According to Israel, the group already poses a security threat to its northern border with Lebanon. Syria claims the Golan Heights to be its territory, one that Israel occupied in the Six-Day War.

	The Israeli military did not respond to a Newsweek request for comment on the payments. An Israeli source told the Journal that money does cross into Syria, but only as humanitarian aid, contradicting the fighters’ accounts.


not sure if Moore is a Russian propagandist or not


but lays out reasons of Israel to intervene


------


http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/former-netanyahu-adviser-syria-cease-fire-could-make-israel-iran-war-inevitable/article/2628869
	Former Netanyahu adviser: Syria cease fire could make Israel-Iran war 'inevitable'
	by Joel Gehrke | Jul 17, 2017, 2:43 PM 


	War between Israel and Iran could be "inevitable" by the end of the Syrian civil war, according to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's former national security adviser.

	Iran is trying to build "an air base in Syria" and provide additional weaponry to terrorists in Lebanon in an apparent effort to threaten Israel from two directions, according to the Netanyahu ally. This fear has been brewing in U.S. and Israeli circles for years, but the Israelis think the terms of a nascent Syria cease-fire negotiated by the Trump administration, Russia and Jordan exacerbates the danger.

	"Israel should take care for its strategic goal and this is to prevent the Iranians and Hezbollah from building launching pads in Syria," Yaakov Amidror, who counseled Netanyahu from 2011 to 2013, told reporters on a conference call hosted by The Israel Project. "If [the Iranians] begin to build infrastructure which might be used against Israel in Syria and will connect this land corridor into Iraq and begin to move materials from this area into Syria, that will make the war inevitable."


Amirdror suggests Iran could stage invasion from Syria, Lebanon?


	U.S. officials in both parties have raised the same concerns. "A permanent Iranian military base in Syria, potentially near the border with Israel or Jordan, would increase Iran's operational capacity to inflict serious damage against two of our closest allies in the region," Rep. Peter Roskam, R-Ill., and Rep. Ted Deutch, D-Fla., wrote in a May letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.


Rep Deutch and Roskam concerned about Iranian bases in Syria, write Tillerson


	..."They picked the best small footprint option that they could for the maximum amount of impact," House Intelligence Committee chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., told the Washington Examiner in June. "Meaning: small troop numbers, heavy involvement with our partners. But in the long run, I don't know if that's going to be successful."

	Nunes and other lawmakers worry the United States will succeed in defeating the Islamic State in Syria, only to see Iran gain long-term strategic benefits from its decision to partner with Russia in support of embattled Syrian President Bashar Assad. Amidror hinted that Israel might tolerate some sort of Iranian presence in Syria that didn't impinge on Israeli security, but emphasized they will use their "military capability" to "destroy "enemy forces too close to their border.

	"If that will not be taken into account by the those who are making those arrangements, the Americans the Russians and others, that might lead the IDF to intervene and to destroy every attempt to build infrastructure in Syria," the retired Israeli military intelligence general said. "We will not let the Iranians and Hezbollah to be the forces which will win from the long and very brutal war in Syria and to move the focus into Israel."


Nunes, others saying Assad win could lead to war between Israel and Iran



-------


http://www.timesofisrael.com/netanyahu-rejects-syria-ceasefire-says-it-will-strengthen-iran/
	Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday said he opposes the deal brokered by the United States and Russia that led to an open-ended ceasefire in southern Syria, saying it does not sufficiently address Iranian military ambitions in the area. 

	Placing himself at odds with US President Donald Trump on the issue, Netanyahu told journalists in Paris that the agreement perpetuates Iranian plans to set up a disruptive long-term presence on Israel’s northern border, something he has repeatedly vowed that the Jewish state won’t tolerate. 


------


http://www.jpost.com/Arab-Israeli-Conflict/White-House-aide-says-Israel-was-part-of-Syria-ceasefire-talks-499683

	WASHINGTON – Israel was involved in negotiations over the cease-fire currently holding in southwest Syria alongside Russia, Jordan and the United States, a White House aide said on Thursday.

	Speaking with CNN’s Jake Tapper, Sebastian Gorka, a national security adviser to US President Donald Trump, said the administration had successfully brokered a cease-fire agreement by cooperating with Moscow and “Israel, with Jordan involved.”

	After the interview, an administration official clarified to The Jerusalem Post that the Israelis were “not a party to it, but were consulted.” Areas under the agreement’s jurisdiction are close to the Golan border.


Pretty sure Gorka is lying


------


http://www.globalresearch.ca/video-israel-opposed-to-syria-ceasefire-brokered-by-us-and-russia/5599853
	Video: Israel Opposed to Syria Ceasefire Brokered by US and Russia

	...At the same time, the US-led coalition is attempting to solve the growing tensions between the SDF and local Arabs as well as between Kurdish and Arab factions of the US-backed force. They key problem is that nobody on the ground believes in the mainstream media mantra about so-called Arab allies of the coalition that allegedly are the core of the US-backed force. The SDF is almost fully controlled by Kurdish militias that are going to establish a full political and security control over the city and to include it into their self-proclaimed Kurdish-dominated federation after the defeat of ISIS.

	Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday said that he opposes the ceasefire deal in southern Syria brokered by the United States and Russia. The reason is that the agreement does not serve so-called Israeli interests. According to Netanyahu, the agreement perpetuates Iranian plans to set up a long-term presence on Israel’s northern border.


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/middle_east/the-latest-israel-welcomes-southern-syria-cease-fire/2017/07/09/006101a0-648c-11e7-94ab-5b1f0ff459df_story.html
	By Associated Press July 9

	12:45 p.m.

	Israel says it would “welcome a genuine cease-fire” in southern Syria so long as it doesn’t enable a military presence for Iran and its proxies along Israel’s border.

	Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s comments were Israel’s first since the cease-fire brokered by U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin went into effect midday Sunday.

	Israel has repeatedly said it will not allow Iran, which is a close ally of the Syrian government, to set up a permanent presence in Syria. It has carried out a number of airstrikes in Syria against suspected shipments of “game-changing” weapons bound for Hezbollah in Lebanon.

	Netanyahu says he conveyed his country’s concerns once again last week to both Putin and U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. Netanyahu says both said they understand Israel’s position and took it into account.


so what changed?


Russian military presence there?

something Iran did?

talks with France?
