http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/middle-east/syria-russia-assad-soviet-defeat-nazis-anniversary-putin-relations-a7724641.html
	“For Russia, Islamic terrorism is yesterday's fascism and Moscow's support for Syrian President Assad is seen as necessary through Kremlin lenses.” By promoting Victory Day in Syria, says Karasik, “Russia is also showing its prowess in today's Middle East.”


"yesterday's fascism?"


telling


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russia%E2%80%93Syria%E2%80%93Iran%E2%80%93Iraq_coalition


interesting, a coalition of Russia, Syria, Iran, Iraq (and Hezbollah) ostensibly against ISIS

"join intelligence sharing cooperation"


sort-of like uniting against Nazi Germany in WW2?


------


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/DOC_0000273238.pdf


Soviets support Syria against Isreal c. 1970


------


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/DOC_0000269473.pdf
	24 September 1957

	1. ...The USSR would be reluctant to accept the loss to its prestige which would occur if a government it openly supports were overthrown. It would be even more concerned with the resulting setback to its newly won position in the Middle East and with the corresponding strengthening of the US position in that area.

	2. We believe, therefore, that armed intervention by outside powers against the Syrian government would produce a major international crisis. The USSR would make great propaganda play of alleged Western instigation. 


heh


-----


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Syria#Independence.2C_war_and_instability
	Syria became independent on 17 April 1946. Syrian politics from independence through the late 1960s were marked by upheaval. Between 1946 and 1956, Syria had 20 different cabinets and drafted four separate constitutions.

	In 1948, Syria was involved in the Arab-Israeli War, aligning with the other local Arab states who wanted to destroy the state of Israel.[28] The Syrian army entered northern Palestine but, after bitter fighting, was gradually driven back to the Golan Heights by the Israelis. An armistice was agreed in July 1949. A demilitarized zone under UN supervision was established; the status of these territories proved a stumbling-block for all future Syrian-Israeli negotiations. It was during this period that many Syrian Jews, who faced growing persecution and fled Syria as part of Jewish exodus from Arab countries.


So Soviets help Syria gain "independence," George Marshall helps fund Isreali state then immediately pits them at war...


------

https://journals.lib.unb.ca/index.php/JCS/article/download/11815/12637
	1996

	Syria represents the epitome of a modern authoritarian-praetorian state. 2 Key army units
buttress the rule of President Hafiz al-Asad 3 but it is the intelligence services, or
mukhabarat, that are the "keystone" in Asad's "political arch." 4 In addition to their crucial
role in buttressing Asad's authoritarian rule, the intelligence services have played major
roles in Syria's foreign affairs. Their involvement in terrorism is most well-known, but
they have also become, notably in Lebanon, leading arbiters of foreign policy in their
own rights. 5
Notwithstanding their importance for domestic and regional affairs, Syria's intelligence
services remain understudied. Although studies of Syrian politics often refer to the
intelligence services, there have been few systematic attempts to study their development
and role. 6 This article is an attempt to fill that gap by outlining the origins and
development of the Syrian services as well as providing insight into their use of covert
action and terrorism.
Studying Intelligence and Political Violence
This study aims to make contributions to the separate but related fields of intelligence
studies and authoritarian politics. The academic study of intelligence has taken off in the
West over the past decade and a half, with the majority of research focusing on Western
services, primarily British and American. Significant work has also been done on other
Western services, such as Canada and Australia, while studies of the former Soviet
Union's intelligence apparatus have also appeared in growing numbers.


	...The term "mukhabarat state" is often used rather loosely in relation to the contemporary
Arab world to refer to the nature of authoritarian state power in much of the region.
Asad's Syria provides a prime example of such a state. From independence until the mid-
1960s, the intelligence services were an essential element in the struggle for power. In
particular, control of the Deuxième Bureau was highly prized as it enabled the faction
that controlled it to persecute its opponents with the full panoply of summary arrests and
military tribunals. 51 Under Asad, the regime has consolidated its grip on the intelligence
services and they have come to dominate all other political and military institutions,
including the state itself. They now play a leading role in both the making and execution
of Syrian domestic and foreign policy.


http://www.exeter.ac.uk/strategy/people/andrewrathmell/biography/
	Dr Andrew Rathmell

	During this deployment, Andrew also took part in General Petraeus’s Joint Strategic Assessment Team which drew up the “surge” plan.


So this guy seems pretty involved


he trustworthy or not?


https://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR1753.html
	America's Role in Nation-Building
	From Germany to Iraq

	by James Dobbins, John G. McGinn, Keith Crane, Seth G. Jones, Rollie Lal, Andrew Rathmell, Rachel M. Swanger, Anga R. Timilsina

	The post-World War II occupations of Germany and Japan set standards for postconflict nation-building that have not since been matched. Only in recent years has the United States has felt the need to participate in similar transformations, but it is now facing one of the most challenging prospects since the 1940s: Iraq. The authors review seven case studies — Germany, Japan, Somalia, Haiti, Bosnia, Kosovo, and Afghanistan — and seek lessons about what worked well and what did not. Then, they examine the Iraq situation in light of these lessons. Success in Iraq will require an extensive commitment of financial, military, and political resources for a long time. The United States cannot afford to contemplate early exit strategies and cannot afford to leave the job half completed.


sounds like he was right I guess?


http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/middleeast/iraq/1460784/Briton-receives-US-gallantry-medal.html
	A British academic awarded a gallantry medal by the Pentagon for rescuing wounded men while under mortar attack in Iraq told yesterday how his St John Ambulance training helped him treat horrific shrapnel wounds.

	"It was pretty simple," said Andrew Rathmell, 37, the first non-American to receive the Medal of Valour from Paul Bremer, the US governor of Iraq. "There's lots of blood coming out of a big hole and you put pressure on it and you don't use tourniquets. That's all I could remember," he said of his training several years earlier.

	Dr Rathmell, an Oxford graduate and PhD, is on secondment to the Pentagon from the RAND Corporation to advise on security and counter-terrorism. He was visiting a base in Baquba, north of Baghdad, in January when a 120mm mortar round landed on top of three soldiers about 10ft away.

	"Two of the soldiers were blown to pieces and the other lost his leg. I was blown off my feet and completely deafened. I couldn't see anything because of the dust storm stirred up. There were more flashes and about half a dozen more incoming rounds."

	Dr Rathmell, who has no military experience, and a US Marines Corps officer with him dragged four injured colleagues, all hit by shrapnel, to safety.


Russian spy or not, I guess he is a hero


wrote this:


https://www.amazon.com/Secret-War-Middle-East-1949-1961/dp/1780764952
	This work is an in-depth study of Syrian politics and foreign relations between 1949 and 1961. Previously unstudied aspects of Syrian covert intervention in the 1958 Lebanese Civil War and of a Syrian-Jordanian ""dirty war"" are also included.

	Covert action and terrorism have played major roles in the policies of the Middle East. It is impossible to comprehend the intricacies of regional politics without an understanding of the covert machinations that lie beneath the surface. This work is an in-depth study of Syrian politics and foreign relations between 1949 and 1961. Topics covered include the role of foreign governments in manipulating Syria's numerous military coups; the covert struggle to remove Adib al-Shishakli, the conflicts in the late 1950s between Syrian politicians and officers, the consolidation of power in Syria by chief Abd al-Hamid Sarraj and his covert battles with Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq from 1957 onwards. Previously unstudied aspects of Syrian covert intervention in the 1958 Lebanese Civil War and of a Syrian-Jordanian ""dirty war"" are also included. Throughout the book, particular attention is paid to the role of the Syrian Social Nationalist Party.


https://www.foreignaffairs.com/reviews/capsule-review/1996-03-01/secret-war-middle-east-covert-struggle-syria-1949-1961
	Middle East scholars have always had a hard time dealing with conspiracies as explanations for political turmoil. On the one hand, the political culture is prone to explain everything in terms of conspiracies, and the lack of tangible evidence is never a barrier to the most imaginative of theories. On the other hand, it is clearly naive to dismiss the political role of various intelligence services, particularly in the 1950s. The virtue of this book is that it examines the evidence supporting and refuting covert activity in Syria--an excellent choice since that nation was the target of many covert actions by its neighbors as well as powers outside the region. Participants have been interviewed, declassified documents have been examined, and a picture that is a bit different from the conventional wisdom emerges. For example, the author does not believe that the Husni Zaim coup of 1949 was primarily the work of the cia, despite such claims by cia operatives; he does, however, provide considerable detail on the plotting against Syria by Turkey, Iraq, and the United States in 1957. He concludes that most covert actions failed to achieve their goals; that some were counterproductive, driving leaders further into the arms of the plotters' adversaries; and that with time Middle Eastern regimes learned to fight back, frequently employing the weapon of state-sponsored, though often deniable, terrorism.


So he disagrees with CIA operatives that the CIA was "primarily responsible" for a coup in Syria in 1949


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/March_1949_Syrian_coup_d'%C3%A9tat
	There are "highly controversial" allegations that the American legation in Syria—headed by James Hugh Keeley, Jr.—and Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) engineered the coup.[6] Assistant military attaché (and undercover CIA officer) Stephen J. Meade, who became intimately acquainted with Colonel Za'im several weeks prior to the coup and was considered Za'im's "principal Western confidant" during Za'im's brief time in power, has been described as the coup's architect—along with the CIA's Damascus station chief, Miles Copeland Jr.[7] Copeland later authored several books with "extraordinarily detailed accounts of CIA operations in, among other countries, Syria, Egypt, and Iran," considered "one of the most revelatory set of writings by a former U.S. intelligence officer ever published." However, Copeland's memoirs have a strong literary quality and contain many embellishments, making it difficult to gauge the historical accuracy of the events he describes.[8] Moreover, Copeland's account of the Syrian coup in his 1989 autobiography The Game Player: Confessions of the CIA's Original Political Operative contradicts the earlier version presented in his 1969 The Game of Nations: The Amorality of Power Politics.[9]


so did the CIA back the coup or not? Soviets?


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP78-01617A002100230001-2.pdf
	1949

	Although the military coup in Syria by Colenel Husni Zaim, Chief of Staff of the Syrian Army, and his ultra-nationalist followers is not expected to cause an appreciable deterioration in US-Syrian relations, the coup will have adverse effects on matters in which the US has an interest. Zaim, who is personally friendly toward the West, will probably be able to consolidate his control over the Government and by ruling with a strong hand may be able to solve many of Syria's internal difficulties. Zaim's coming to power, however, will check the scheduled Syrian-Israeli armistace talks. There will also be delays in the ratification of the agreement for the trans-Arabian petroleum pipeline and the French-Syrian financial agreement. MOrever, the danger exists that the Syrian coup may provoke distribances in other Arab states, particularly Iraq and Egypt. The govornments in these two countries are not sufficiently stable to insure their surviving a serious local outbreak.


https://www.counterpunch.org/2013/07/01/keeping-syria-in-the-wests-orbit/
	Ordinary Syrians know a thing or two about the West’s commitment to democracy.  Syria achieved independence in 1946; it was supposed to be a parliamentary republic. In 1949, the CIA orchestrated a coup in order to put Husni al-Zaim in power.  Declassified documents indicate that the US regarded the colonel as a “likeable rogue”.


http://www.ronpaulinstitute.org/archives/featured-articles/search-results/?author=Eric+Margolis&page=4
	This is nothing new: the first CIA coup attempt to overthrow a Syrian ruler Gen. Husni Zaim was in 1949.

	A combination of imperial hubris and ignorance has led Washington to believe it could overthrow any government that was disobedient or uncooperative. Syria was chosen as the latest target of regime change because the Assad regime – a recognized, legitimate government and UN member –was a close ally of America’s Great Satan, Iran. Formerly it had been cooperating with Washington.

	After watching Syria be slowly destroyed, Russia’s President, Vladimir Putin, moved his rook onto the Syrian chessboard. For the first time since 1991, Moscow sent a small expeditionary unit of 50 warplanes to Syria both to shore up the Assad regime and to reaffirm that Russia has long-standing strategic interests in Syria.

hmmm


well if the Ron Paul institute says the CIA installed Husni, it must be false
