https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/us-russia-agree-to-collaborate-backing-cease-fire-in-southwest-syria/2017/07/07/2fcbfb5e-633b-11e7-a4f7-af34fc1d9d39_story.html
	 By Karen DeYoung July 7

	The United States and Russia have agreed to collaborate on backing a new cease-fire in southwest Syria, to begin Sunday, according to officials from both countries


Sunday is July 9th


	...The cease-fire is to take place in and around the southwestern city of Daraa, in a part of Syria where the front lines are more cleanly drawn and have been relatively stabler between Russian-backed forces loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and U.S.-backed opposition fighters than elsewhere in the country.


mostly around Daraa

	...At the same time, there is a lower proportion of outside actors involved in the fight in the southwest than in other parts of the complex Syrian battlefield. They include Iranian-backed militias such as Hezbollah fighting on Assad’s behalf and terrorist groups such as the former Jabhat al-Nusra fighting against Assad. Those numbers have been increasing lately in Daraa province, however, providing more impetus to the cease-fire negotiations.


Hezbollah fighting there for assad, al-Nusra fighting against, numbers increasing

	While it has been largely out of the public eye compared with other parts of Syria, the fighting in Daraa has claimed the lives of scores of people. The Syrian air force has been pounding the area with the barrel bombs that brought the rebels to surrender in Aleppo last year. Large parts of rebel-controlled areas have been reduced to rubble.

	Russian aircraft also have conducted bombing operations around Daraa in support of Syrian forces.


had been a campaign with barrel bombs leading up to ceasefire--increasing number of refugees?

Assad seems fine with destroying his entire country

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uD_P8giGSDc

maybe a cheap, innacurate way to destroy Syria


https://www.hrw.org/news/2015/09/23/stem-flow-syrian-refugees-stop-barrel-bombs

http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/middleeast/syria/11882038/As-long-as-Assads-barrel-bomb-blitz-continues-Syrians-will-flee-in-droves.html


Said to be a cause of civilian casualties, refugees


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/us-russia-agree-to-collaborate-backing-cease-fire-in-southwest-syria/2017/07/07/2fcbfb5e-633b-11e7-a4f7-af34fc1d9d39_story.html

	Daraa province lies along the western end of Syria’s lengthy border with Jordan, which fears a new influx of Syrian refugees. The government in Amman helped negotiate the deal and is one of the signatories, along with Moscow and Washington.


right, so insinuating the bombing campaign is putting pressure on Jordan, who wouldn't want the influx of refugees


	Israel was a behind-the-scenes player. Israeli warplanes have struck Syrian government forces several times in the area in recent months, including three weeks ago in retaliation for what Israel said were 10 “projectiles” that flew across the border into the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights.


was Isreal starting to get more involved in Daraa?


	The cease-fire, if it works, would freeze the fighting in a way that leaves the rebels in control of the Jordanian border and the de facto border with Israel, as well as portions of the surrounding countryside.


So this is saying it would leave the rebels in control of the Jordan border

the same as this "border crossing?"


	After lengthy negotiations over the past several months, the senior official said, the United States, Jordan and Russia last week reached agreement on a line on the map that separates the opposing forces. “At that point, there was a certain logic in implementing it immediately. Then it was incumbent on us to move as quickly as possible, to make arrangements to ensure that it can be durable,” the official said.


A rush, for some reason


	Other U.S. officials said there was no intention of using U.S. troops on the ground as monitors or enforcers, although it was unclear who would do the job.

	Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, in a news conference after the Trump-Putin meeting, said that “at first, security around this de-escalation zone will be ensured by forces and means of Russian military police in coordination with Jordanians and Americans.”


Trump Admin letting Russia control the whole thing

	Later, at his own news conference, Tillerson said that “we have a very clear picture of who will provide the security forces. But we have a few more details to work out.” He declined to specify what those forces would be.

	The senior official, briefing reporters in Washington, said that “we hope to have that finalized in the next couple of days. Let me leave it at that.”

	Israel, however, has said it does not want Russian troops to deploy in the vicinity, according to a report Friday in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz.


letting Russian troops deploy there and giving Israel the shaft

	...Syrian opposition supporters in Daraa expressed skepticism about the agreement.

	“There have been deals and truces before, but the regime forces never committed to any of these deals,” said Iyad al-Rifai, an optician who lives in Daraa. “On the contrary, they always try to take advantage of the truce deals to advance.”


opposition forces skeptical, suspect Russia to take advantage of the ceasefire


------


http://www.npr.org/sections/parallels/2017/07/17/537679035/heres-what-to-know-about-the-trump-putin-syria-cease-fire
	Here's What To Know About The Trump-Putin Syria Cease-Fire

	July 17, 20171:59 PM ET

	...For Russia, this is part of a wider effort to establish "de-escalation zones" in the country that would ultimately stabilize Syria while keeping the regime of Bashar Assad in power. Russia has vetoed United Nations Security Council measures against the Assad regime on eight separate occasions since 2011.


says Russia aims to "stablize" Syria to keep Assad in power

	...But in this cynical war, cease-fires are also an opportunity for the most powerful warring side — in this case, the regime and its allies, including Russia — to reorganize and redeploy forces. Damascus has used the quiet in the southwest to move troops up to eastern Ghouta, a suburb of the capital where opposition groups still have a strong foothold.


Syria using the ceasefire to focus efforts elsewhere? geography seems to give them a mobility advantage, more coordination


	...Issam al-Reis, a spokesman for the U.S.- and Jordan-supported Southern Front rebel group in southwest Syria, told NPR they would not stand idly by if the assault on eastern Ghouta continues.

	"East Ghouta is our brother in the revolution," he said. "This may threaten the whole deal."


Rebels there not happy about this, maybe will cause break in ceasefire

Rebels would also be tied up caring to wounded, clearing rubble after Barrel bombs

	...In a further complication to Trump's ambitions, on Sunday, Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, took the unusual step of publicly attacking the cease-fire, saying Israel was "utterly opposed" to it.


Israel "utterly opposed" to ceasefire


	...But Israel fears Russia may not be willing or able to enforce the cease-fire. And if that is the case, it could see hostile, Iranian-funded fighters ultimately occupy the territory near its border.

	...For the moment, Hezbollah and its allies are concentrating their firepower in eastern Syria — far from the current cease-fire area. Analysts say the groups are working to open a land route through Iraq and Syria through which they can be directly supplied.

	Iran was not party to the current cease-fire negotiations. And if it succeeds in the east, some analysts warn that a strengthened Hezbollah may ultimately be tempted to storm toward the Israeli border.


so what, could they regroup in Daraa after fighting in eastern Syria?

would that be Russia's plan?


------


https://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/1.801612
	Netanyahu: Israel Opposes Cease-fire Deal Reached by U.S. and Russia in Southern Syria

	Truce deal 'very bad,' senior official says ■ Iran said planning to send substantial military forces to Syria, establish air force, navy bases there ■ Macron: France ready to address Hezbollah threat to Israel 


	PARIS - Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told reporters after his meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron on Sunday that Israel opposes the cease-fire agreement in southern Syria that the United States and Russia reached because it perpetuates the Iranian presence in the country.

	The prime minister noted that in his meeting with Macron, he made it clear to the French president that Israel was totally opposed to the cease-fire plan.


hmmm, France to step in instead?


	A senior Israeli official who asked not to be named due to the diplomatic sensitivity of the matter said Israel is aware of Iranian intensions to substantially expand its presence in Syria. Iran is not only interested in sending advisers to Syria, the official said, but also in dispatching extensive military forces including the establishment of an airbase for Iranian aircraft and a naval base.

	"This already changes the picture in the region from what it has been up to now," the senior official said.


so did the ceasefire buy time for Iran to establish foothold?


	...By openly voicing his opposition to one of the most significant moves the United States and Russia have made in Syria in recent months, Netanyahu made public a major disagreement between Israel and the two great powers that had until now been kept under wraps and expressed only through quiet diplomatic channels.


he sounds pissed


more going on here? Isreal was upping airstrikes--is the ceasefire a way to curtail Israeli support?


	...During these talks, Israel presented a list of demands and voiced several reservations about the emerging agreement. Inter alia, Israel said that the de-escalation zones must keep Iran, Hezbollah and other Shi’ite militias away from the Israeli and Jordanian borders and must not enable Iran to consolidate its presence in Syria. Israel also told the Americans it objected to having Russian troops policing the cease-fire in the safe zones near its border.


right to read a forcasting of Russian intentions in this? use the ceasfire to help Iran consolidate presence, send in Russian troops


	...“France has a special relationship with the Lebanese government, and Macron has the ability to talk directly with the Hariri government about Hezbollah,” Netanyahu said at a briefing for reporters after his meeting with the French president. "In our meeting, I sent clear, forceful messages about Hezbollah’s continued consolidation in the country with sophisticated arms, some of which they want to manufacture on Lebanese soil and some of which they want to import from Syria. I told him the seeds are being sown here for a very serious conflict between Israel and Lebanon, and the Lebanese government shouldn’t take steps that would push such a conflict forward.”


dragging Lebenon into this to help Iran/Russia somehow, I guess a staging area?



http://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/1.791153
	Analysis In Israel, Trump Makes the Word 'Peace' Great Again

	Trump’s first achievement during this visit is that he has succeeded in bringing peace, which in recent years had become a dirty word, back to the center of Israeli public and political discourse
	Barak Ravid


	...Unlike Obama and Kerry, Trump intimidates Netanyahu


???

strange article

seems pro-Trump


------


http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/07/14/why-trumps-syrian-ceasefire-makes-israel-nervous-215376


something off about this article


http://www.npr.org/2013/09/04/218811161/how-much-does-israeli-security-enter-into-u-s-decision-on-syria
	MONTAGNE: At this point in time, as things stand, does Israel want to see Bashar al-Assad go?

	MAKOVSKY: I think they don't have a policy consensus over there on that one issue. Let me break it down to two schools, OK. One school is what I call the devil you know is the devil, which is as bad as this guy is, he really is the worst, because he has the Iran-Hezbollah connection. The other school of thought is the devil you know, but the other guy could be worse, with a lot of these Sunni extremists, including al-Qaida offshoots. And I think part of their hesitancy - certainly refraining from doing whatever they can to make a recommendation of the United States - is that they have not clarified this policy debate over there.


saying the same thing here


wouldn't Israel hate Assad for funding terrorism, aligning with Hezbollah, aligning with KGB?

the guy has the protocols of the elders of zion on his website


http://www.timesofisrael.com/why-israelis-are-happy-about-trumps-missile-strike-and-why-they-should-be-wary/
	“Israel still sees Trump as a dealmaker with Russia, and they want to know if Trump drives a wedge between Russia and Iran-Hezbollah-Syria,” David Makovsky, the Ziegler distinguished fellow at the Washington Institute, said in an interview.


Why would Israel see Trump as anything other than a Russian stooge? Mossad one of the best intel agencies I think, upped intel sharing with U.S.

could be saying Isreal hopes Trump drives a wedge between Iran and Russia regardless, but why would they hope that? Trump does whatever Putin wants


others have said conflict can be viewed as a proxy war between Iran and Israel

Makovsky confusing people about Israel's intentions?


------


http://foreignpolicy.com/2017/07/11/exclusive-trump-putin-ceasefire-agreement-focuses-on-iranian-backed-fighters-middle-east/
	Exclusive
	Secret Details of Trump-Putin Syria Cease-fire Focus on Iranian Proxies

	But experts doubt whether the U.S.-Russian pact can be enforced.

    By Colum Lynch, Robbie Gramer, Dan De Luce, Paul McLeary
    July 11, 2017


	A confidential U.S.-Russian cease-fire agreement for southwestern Syria that went into effect Sunday calls for barring Iranian-backed foreign fighters from a strategic stretch of Syrian territory near the borders of Israel and Jordan, according to three diplomatic sources.

	President Donald Trump hailed it as an important agreement that would serve to save lives. But few details of the accord have been made public.


why so secretive?


	U.S. Defense Department officials — who would have responsibility for monitoring the agreement — appeared to be in the dark about the pact’s fine print.


that doesn't sound right...


	The pact is aimed at addressing demands by Israel and Jordan — the latter is a party to the agreement — that Iranian forces and their proxies, including Hezbollah, not be permitted near the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, which separates Syria from Israel, or along the Jordanian border.

	But former U.S. diplomats and observers question whether the agreement is truly enforceable, expressing doubts that Russia could act as a reliable guarantor for a cease-fire involving the Syrian regime, Iran, and its proxies.

	“The question is, ‘Who is going to enforce that?’ Is Russia going to take on the responsibility for telling Iran what to do?” said Gerald Feierstein, a veteran U.S. diplomat who retired last year, noting that a peace deal without Iranian buy-in is untenable. “Iranians are much closer to Assad’s position on the way forward in Syria than the Russians are.”

	And they have far more leverage. “It’s the Iranians and their proxies who are doing a bulk of the fighting inside Syria,” he told Foreign Policy.


says that Iran is really key, not Russia


not sure about that...


but if Iran not party to agreement, a problem. Not much to hold Iran accountable.


	Since May, the Russians have failed to persuade Iranian-backed militia groups or the Syrian regime to respect a “deconfliction zone” that American commanders had declared near a U.S. outpost in southeastern Syria. Although U.S. officers informed their Russian counterparts about the zone around Tanf, Iranian-backed militias and Syrian fighter jets ignored the warning and moved toward U.S. special operations forces and their Syrian Kurdish and Arab allies. As a result, U.S. aircraft shot down a Syrian fighter jet and an Iranian-made drone and struck Iranian-backed militias in the area.


Iran ignored these before


so maybe agreement could be a way for Iran to consolidate forces?

see that in multiple places


	Given the track record so far, “Why should we believe that it will be different under this cease-fire?” one congressional staffer asked.

	An Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman, Bahram Qasemi, reacted coolly to the pact, saying it contained some “ambiguities” and that “no agreement would be successful without taking the realities on the ground into account.”

	“Iran is seeking Syria’s sovereignty and security so a cease-fire cannot be limited to a certain location,” Qasemi was quoted saying by Tasnim News Agency.


hmmm


	...The pact — detailed in a Memorandum of Principle for De-escalation in Southern Syria — established a cease-fire between Syrian government forces and armed opposition groups that came into force on Sunday. It calls for transforming southern Syria below Quneitra and Suwayda into an exclusion zone for fighters of “non-Syrian origin,” including Iranian troops, their proxies, and fighters linked to al Qaeda and the Islamic State, which have a limited presence in the area.

	“This could be designed mainly to reassure the Israelis that these elements would not be operating in proximity to the Golan Heights,” said Hof, who is now at the Atlantic Council.


so it's supposed to "exclude" Iran from this "zone," but Iran didn't agree to it?


	...Hof said the provision for a joint monitoring center resembles a plan put forward by former U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry to coordinate efforts to confront extremists in northwestern Syria. “[U.S. Central Command] was very, very, very skeptical about that when it was first proposed,” Hof said. “They feared being hoodwinked by the Russians into some kind of attack on an urban area that would produce massive civilian casualties.”

	In fact, it appears that the military was not consulted this time around. On Monday, BuzzFeed News reported that top Pentagon officials were not involved in the planning or briefed on their role in the arrangement.

	A military officer confirmed to FP that the Pentagon and Centcom have very little information about the proposed cease-fire and said, “We’re getting to that level of understanding this week.”


redoing the intel-sharing thing? and keeping U.S. military in the dark


	The more likely situation would see a “remote” monitoring agreement, where U.S. military personnel would sit together with Russian officers at the proposed facility in Amman, the officer said, though “we have to figure out exactly what it means, and we have to figure out what the terms of reference are between the Russians and us and if the Syrians are even a party to it.”


knowing the Russians, sitting together with Russian officers wouldn't preclude them launching a missile there anyway


	...“The United States remains committed to defeating ISIS, helping to end the conflict in Syria, reducing suffering, and enabling people to return to their homes,” Trump’s national security advisor, H.R. McMaster, said last Friday, referring to the Islamic State. “This agreement is an important step toward these common goals.”


"reducing suffering" and "helping people return to their homes" are goals of Russia? what is McMaster smoking?


------


https://www.buzzfeed.com/nancyyoussef/looking-for-details-on-syria-ceasefire-dont-ask-us-military?utm_term=.wg3pJY0E2#.uv7zdyDrp
	 Looking For Details On Syria Ceasefire? Don’t Ask US Military.

	President Trump hailed the new US–Russia ceasefire in Syria as a success on Sunday. But Pentagon officials on Monday said they knew nothing about how the ceasefire was being monitored or enforced.
	Originally posted on July 10, 2017, at 7:09 p.m.
	Updated on July 11, 2017, at 12:16 a.m.
	Nancy A. Youssef


	The US military has received no guidance on how to enforce the ceasefire now in place in southwest Syria, even as the Trump administration hails it as a success, three Defense Department officials told BuzzFeed News on Monday.

	US military officials said they don’t have any formal role in the ceasefire, or in monitoring or enforcing it in any way. It is unclear whether the US military is collecting intelligence in the area that might be useful in highlighting violations.

	“You’d think we would be a part of it,” one US military official explained.


but why would anyone who wants to be taken seriously talk to BuzzFeed



https://www.buzzfeed.com/nancyyoussef/mcmasters-credibility-is-on-shaky-ground?utm_term=.fkPv9rRJ7#.foEKPV3gX
	McMaster's Credibility Is On Shaky Ground After Defending Trump

	Trump's national security adviser, whose book emphasizes the need to stand up to the civilian chain of command, was a current military general when he stood behind the White House press podium Tuesday.
	Posted on May 17, 2017, at 1:58 a.m.
	Nancy A. Youssef

	It wasn’t his strained defense of the “wholly appropriate” conversations between Russian officials and President Donald Trump, or even the fact that he, a general, was standing at the White House podium that rattled longtime fans.

	Rather, it was that Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, Trump’s national security adviser, was a current military officer when he stood before the American public and aggressively defended a president during a political crisis — and that he leaned on his credibility as a military general to do so.

	“There is no way he is going to be able to live up to the ideals he wrote in his book with this president,” one longtime military observer told BuzzFeed News.

	Troops — particularly veterans who remembered McMaster and his venerable reputation at the height of the Iraq War — took to Facebook and Twitter to express their sadness over the apparent degradation of their hero.


hmmm


the FP article cites her article too


------


https://twitter.com/Rsherlock/status/886666016662712321
	The ceasefire in southwest #Syria started before terms were publically set. Opposition sources from #Deraa say they didnt know deal details.


https://twitter.com/Rsherlock/status/886666573485920256
	#Syria: #SouthernFront told me #Iran-backed fighters & #regime men in practice are mixed together on the frontline.


https://twitter.com/Rsherlock/status/886669248034205696
	2. If Iranian-backed fighters are embedded with #Syrian units, hard to see how #Russia could keep them off #Israel border in ceasefire deal.


https://twitter.com/Rsherlock/status/886800023324897281
	#Israel rejection of #Syria ceasefire born from the fear that it entrenches a situation that sees #Iran backed groups on its border.


https://twitter.com/Rsherlock/status/886821297757540353
	#Syria regime is in a revamped offensive to take #EasternGhouta suburb of #Damascus since start of the #US #Russia ceasefire in southwest.


https://twitter.com/Rsherlock/status/886896474935762944
	Russia offers to guarantee #Syria ceasefire, but #Iran that has the troops on the ground. Jury is out on how much control Moscow would have.


https://twitter.com/Rsherlock/status/887063698078085122
	The #Trump #Putin ceasefire in #Syria - it's more complicated than the President suggests:


------


http://time.com/4640640/eastern-ghouta-syria-damascus-assad-peace-talks/
	The Damascus Suburb That Could Be the Next Key Front in Syria's War
	Jan 23, 2017

	With a population as high as 450,000 people, Eastern Ghouta is larger than the rebel enclave in the eastern half of Aleppo, which fell to government forces and allied militias in December. Already encircled by pro-Assad forces, Eastern Ghouta is sustained by an elaborate network of smuggling tunnels that connect the area to the regime-held areas. The tunnels ease the effects of the blockade, providing vital goods to the people inside the enclave, and enriching smugglers, rebels, and government officials thought to be involved in smuggling.

	Assad’s regime is expected to seek a negotiated settlement with rebel groups inside Eastern Ghouta in hopes of convincing them to surrender, rather than launching another massive military campaign along the lines of the onslaught on eastern Aleppo last year.

	The suburb has already endured years of intense bombardment by Assad’s forces. It was also the site of the pivotal 2013 chemical weapon attack that killed more than a thousand people and prompted the Obama administration to threaten military action against the Assad regime. Still, experts believe Assad would prefer that the rebels in the region surrender through negotiations.


So Ghouta is a big deal for Assad, trying to force them to surrender by gassing them, making them miserable?


said to be under siege



------


https://sputniknews.com/middleeast/201707181055642903-us-russia-syria-second-truce/


Sputnik says there are rumors of another ceasefire deal in Eastern Ghouta, talks in mid August


------


http://www.aljazeera.com/news/2017/07/air-strikes-kill-10-syria-eastern-ghouta-sohr-170716043617281.html
	16 July 2017

	Air raids kill 10 in Syria's Eastern Ghouta: SOHR

	UK-based monitor SOHR describes Friday's assault as deadliest in opposition-held Eastern Ghouta region since April.



https://www.almasdarnews.com/article/pictures-syrian-armys-latest-east-ghouta-offensive-reaches-deadly-undesired-outcome/
	Meanwhile, tensions still remain high between Jaish Al-Islam – which occupies most of the northern and eastern parts of the East Ghouta – and its rival Hay’at Tahrir Al-Sham (HTS) which is based in the southern and western areas.

	On the other hand, the Free Syrian Army’s (FSA) Failaq Al-Rahman has thrown everything it has into the defense of Jobar and Ayn Tarma, two large suburbs in east Damascus that have become subject to another SAA offensive which has proven far more succesful in recent weeks. 


------


https://www.newsdeeply.com/syria/community/2017/07/12/is-the-latest-cease-fire-in-syria-different
	Frederic C. Hof

	The relative quiet prevailing in southwestern Syrian beginning on Sunday, July 9, 2017, is a good thing. Assad regime barrel bombs have stopped falling on civilian residential areas. The prospect of a Syrian refugee surge toward Jordan has diminished. Is this cease-fire something different from the failed “cessation of hostilities” of early 2016? Or is it merely a prelude to more mass murder?

	The differences between February 2016, when the ill-fated cessation of hostilities was announced, and now are potentially significant. Whether that potential can produce a cease-fire that holds and even expands remains to be seen. As American officials have made clear, all there is right now in terms of a cease-fire mechanism is an announcement.


Hof thinks the ceasefire is a good thing


	...In mid-2017 southwestern Syria is, from Moscow’s point of view, a politically attractive place to stabilize. Yes, the Kremlin would prefer to see this region and all of Syria brought nominally under the control of its client regime. But it respects the military strength of anti-regime forces in the southwest and it worries that engulfing Jordan in a potentially destabilizing refugee crisis could increase Israel’s appetite for airstrikes against regime forces and Iranian-led militiamen. Stabilizing the southwest could, therefore, help protect the regime.


says the ceasfire could help protect the regime, cites Israeli airstrikes


	...On the morning of April 7, 2017, the laughing died down as American missiles landed on the Syrian air force base from which a deadly chemical attack on civilians had been launched days earlier. Subsequently Washington made it clear to Moscow, as well as to the regime and Iran, that further chemical attacks would draw similar responses and that American trained-and-equipped forces fighting ISIS (ISIL, Daesh, Islamic State) would be protected from attacks by the regime and its supporters. To their credit, most former senior officials of the Obama administration have either been supportive of the restoration of American credibility or silent.


praises Trump's missile strikes


	...Indeed, part of Russia’s calculation may involve putting southwestern Syria on ice so that the regime, Russia and Iran can take full advantage of the United States Central Command’s (CENTCOM) invitation to the Assad regime to re-establish itself in eastern Syria provided it and its Iranian-led foreign Shia militiamen concentrate their fire on ISIS instead of those trying to shut down the ersatz caliphate. The CENTCOM invitation capped a post-ISIS stabilization policy and planning failure of epic proportion, one subjecting eastern Syria not only to the kind of Assad governance that opened the vacuum for ISIS to fill in the first place, but the additional destabilizing indignity of ill-disciplined Shia foreign fighters running amok in an overwhelmingly Sunni region. By freezing southwestern Syria, Moscow may be enabling the regime and Iran to marshal the ground forces required to take full advantage of the CENTCOM invitation.


what is he trying to say? CENTCOM invited Russia to do this?



------


https://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/05/opinion/aipac-is-good-for-america.html?rref=collection%2Fcolumn%2Fshmuel-rosner&action=click&contentCollection=opinion&region=stream&module=stream_unit&version=latest&contentPlacement=40&pgtype=collection
	Aipac Is Good for America
	[Shmuel Rosner]

	Shmuel Rosner MARCH 4, 2014


this guy KGB?


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/19/opinion/israel-syria.html
	Why Israel Can’t Support a Cease-Fire in Syria

	Shmuel Rosner JULY 19, 2017

	TEL AVIV — The cease-fire in southwestern Syria that went into effect last week is, of course, good for many Syrians who are tired of six years of butchery. Still — and this is almost painful to admit — under the current conditions, the cease-fire could be problematic for Israel. 


sounds like it


------


http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/politics/ct-trump-cia-syria-20170719-story.html
	Trump ends covert CIA program to arm anti-Assad Syrian rebels, a move sought by Russia 

	By Greg Jaffe and Adam Entous
	Washington Post

	July 19, 2017, 3:19 PM

	President Donald Trump has decided to end the CIA's covert program to arm and train moderate Syrian rebels battling the government of Bashar al-Assad, a move long sought by Russia, according to U.S. officials.

	The program was a central plank of a policy begun by the Obama administration in 2013 to put pressure on Assad to step aside, but even its backers have questioned its efficacy since Russia deployed forces in Syria two years later.

	Officials said the phasing out of the secret program reflects Trump's interest in finding ways to work with Russia, which saw the anti-Assad program as an assault on its interests. The shuttering of the program is also an acknowledgment of Washington's limited leverage and desire to remove Assad from power.

	...Officials said Trump made the decision to scrap the CIA program nearly a month ago, after an Oval Office meeting with CIA Director Mike Pompeo and national security adviser H.R. McMaster ahead of a July 7 meeting in Germany with Russian President Vladimir Putin.



so officials say Trump decided to end a secret CIA program to back Syrian rebels


Entous and Jaffe report it as if it wasn't working so well anyway?


	...After the Trump-Putin meeting, the United States and Russia announced an agreement to back a new cease-fire in southwest Syria, along the Jordanian border, where many of the CIA-backed rebels have long operated. Trump described the limited cease-fire deal as one of the benefits of a constructive working relationship with Moscow.


Doesn't say much... what in particular is special about the forces near Daraa? Remember reading they were more unified

also an apparent KGB agent said Isreal backing them

now this saying CIA backing them


maybe what's "special" about them is they have to stay put while Iran and Assad forces can relocate more easily?


	...Some current and former officials who support the program cast the move as a major concession.

	"This is a momentous decision," said a current official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss a covert program. "Putin won in Syria."


now saying this is a big deal, major concession


	...Senior U.S. officials said that the covert program would be phased out over a period of months. It is also possible that some of the support could be redirected to other missions, such as fighting the Islamic State or making sure that the rebels can still defend themselves from attacks.


saying the aid to "anti-assad" rebels could be redirected to fighting ISIS


	...One big potential risk of shutting down the CIA program is that the United States may lose its ability to block other countries, such as Turkey and Persian Gulf allies, from funneling more sophisticated weapons - including man-portable air-defense systems, or MANPADS - to anti-Assad rebels, including more radical groups.


strange, whats the worry here, that they would fall into the wrong hands?

some of the anti-assad rebels are terrorists
