http://www.politico.com/story/2016/10/trump-praise-russia-iran-assad-criticism-229546
	10/10/2016

	“I don't like Assad at all, but Assad is killing ISIS. Russia is killing ISIS and Iran is killing ISIS,” Trump said when asked about his plans for Syria. He was referring to the country’s president, Bashar Assad, and using an acronym for the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.

	Although Trump has argued before against intervening in Syria, and often calls for cooperation with Russia against ISIS, his statement Sunday night was particularly blunt—and underscored the huge gap between Trump’s views and mainstream Republican thinking. 


http://www.politico.com/story/2016/05/trump-islamic-state-syria-223399
	Trump pledges to hit Islamic State, not Assad

	By Nick Gass

	05/20/2016 

	Donald Trump on Friday said that he would not pursue military action against Syrian dictator Bashar Assad but would go after the Islamic State in the region.

	Calling in to MSNBC's "Morning Joe," the presumptive Republican nominee reiterated that he would not have put the United States in Iraq or in Libya. When asked if he would exercise his power to put the military in Syria, he said he would not.

	"I would have stayed out of Syria and wouldn't have fought so much for Assad, against Assad because I thought that was a whole thing," Trump said. "You have Iran, which we made into a power. Iran now is a power. Because of us, because of some of the dumbest deals I have ever seen. So now you have Iran and you have Russia in favor of Assad. We're supposed to fight the two of them. At the same time, we're supposed to fight ISIS, who is fighting Assad."


Trump says ISIS is fighting Assad, but ISIS is not fighting Assad

	...On Friday morning, co-host Joe Scarborough remarked, "So there are a lot of people who say you have inconsistent foreign policy, but it sounds consistent here as far as what you've said this morning. You wouldn't have gone into Libya. You wouldn't have gone into Iraq. You wouldn't go into Syria. You wouldn't have fought Assad."

	"Right," Trump said. "But I'll go after ISIS big-league."

	"So what you're saying is Assad can stay in power. That's not your interest," Scarborough said.

	The U.S. has "bigger problems than Assad," Trump said, adding that he would tell the generals to "knock the hell out of ISIS, which we could have done originally."


https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2015/oct/13/donald-trump-foreign-policy-doctrine-nation-building
	The US needs to focus on fixing itself rather than on “nation-building” abroad, Donald Trump told the Guardian in an exclusive interview. The Republican presidential frontrunner then gave two examples of exceptions to his philosophy: in Kosovo in the 1990s, and in the conflict against Isis today.

	The real-estate mogul and former reality TV star has long questioned the use of military force abroad to promote democracy, and has vocally condemned the 2003 invasion of Iraq.

	But in laying out his foreign policy during a wide-ranging conversation on Monday, Trump said despite his hesitations about military intervention, “there are certain cases where you see things going on, atrocities going on, that are horrible ... Isis is one of them”.

	...“Assad is bad,” Trump said. “Maybe these people could be worse.”

------


http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/middle-east/donald-trump-syria-assad-ready-to-co-operate-russia-putin-war-a7409096.html
	Embattled Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is “ready” to cooperate with the US President-elect Donald Trump, one of Mr Assad’s advisers has said.

	Speaking to US media group National Public Radio on Thursday – just after Mr Trump’s seismic victory in the US general election – Bouthaina Shaaban cautiously suggested the Syrian government would "wait to see what are the policies of the President-elect... particularly towards terrorism," ahead of any collaboration on Syria’s almost six-year-long civil war.

	“I think the American people have sent a great, a very important message to the world,” she added.


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-mideast-crisis-syria-assad-trump-idUSKBN1431YH
	Syria's Assad: Trump can be our natural ally

	MOSCOW (Reuters) - Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said in an interview with Russian state television that U.S. President-elect Donald Trump could become a natural ally to Damascus if he shows he is sincere about fighting terrorism.

	"If Trump can genuinely fight against terrorism, he can be our natural ally," Assad, speaking through an interpreter, said in the interview which was broadcast on Wednesday.

	Assad said he was encouraged by Trump's declarations during the election campaign about fighting violent Islamists and not interfering in the internal affairs of other countries. But it was unclear if Trump would carry through on those promises once in office, Assad said. 


------


http://www.businessinsider.com/trump-assad-tougher-and-smarter-than-obama-and-clinton-2016-10
	Donald Trump said during the final presidential debate on Wednesday that Syrian President Bashar Assad is "much tougher and much smarter" than President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.

	The international community widely considers Assad to be a brutal dictator who barrel bombs and starves civilians in his country.

	"Take a look at Aleppo," the Republican presidential nominee said in response to a question about the besieged city in Syria. "It is so sad when you see what's happened. And a lot of this is because of Hillary Clinton. Because what's happened is by fighting Assad, who turned out to be a lot tougher than she thought, and now she's gonna say, 'Oh, he loves Assad.'"

	Trump continued: "He's just much tougher and much smarter than her and Obama. And everyone thought he was gone two years ago, three years ago. He aligned with Russia, he now also aligned with Iran, who we made very powerful."

	Trump did later concede that Assad is a "bad guy."

	"If they ever did overthrow Assad, you might end up with as bad as Assad is, and he's a bad guy," he said. "But you may very well end up with worse than Assad."

	Trump then pivoted to the refugee crisis, which the Syrian civil war has contributed greatly to.

	"She's taking in tens of thousands of Syrian refugees who probably, in many cases, not probably, who are definitely, in many cases, ISIS-aligned, and we now have them in our country, and wait 'til you see, this is going to be the great Trojan horse, and wait 'til you see what happens in the coming years," he said. "Lots of luck, Hillary, thanks a lot for doing a great job."

	Later on, Trump said the US is "so outplayed" by Russian President Putin and Assad and that "nobody can believe how stupid our leadership is."


------


http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/warning-from-the-syrian-border-trump-reminds-us-of-assad-20160512
	Warning From the Syrian Border: Trump Reminds Us a Bit Too Much of Assad

	"We are scared. For all of us, not only you," a Syrian doctor says of a potential Donald Trump presidency

	GAZIANTEP, TURKEY—I've been interviewing Jalal Nofal and Beshr al-Haj Hussein – both psychologists from Damascus who now live in this border town in southern Turkey – for about an hour, when al-Haj Hussein turns the tables on me. "We have a question for you," he says. "How can the American people vote for Donald Trump?"

	The two men laugh. I say I'm worried that if elected president, Trump would rule as a strongman, authoritarian-type figure.

	"You will have your Assad!" says Nofal, who was arrested several times by the Assad regime for his work in the Syrian revolution, and has been in Turkey for 15 months.

	"It's scary," I respond. "Actually, we are scared," says al-Haj Hussein. "For all of us, not only you." He then says something I don't fully catch about "doomsday," but his point is clear: Trump is an unpredictable madman, who could spell destruction on an unimaginable scale.


------


https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/10/us/politics/transcript-second-debate.html
	RADDATZ: Mr. Trump, let me repeat the question. If you were president...

	(LAUGHTER)

	... what would you do about Syria and the humanitarian crisis in Aleppo? And I want to remind you what your running mate said. He said provocations by Russia need to be met with American strength and that if Russia continues to be involved in air strikes along with the Syrian government forces of Assad, the United States of America should be prepared to use military force to strike the military targets of the Assad regime.

	TRUMP: OK. He and I haven’t spoken, and I disagree. I disagree.

	RADDATZ: You disagree with your running mate?

	TRUMP: I think you have to knock out ISIS. Right now, Syria is fighting ISIS. We have people that want to fight both at the same time. But Syria is no longer Syria. Syria is Russia and it’s Iran, who she made strong and Kerry and Obama made into a very powerful nation and a very rich nation, very, very quickly, very, very quickly.

	I believe we have to get ISIS. We have to worry about ISIS before we can get too much more involved. She had a chance to do something with Syria. They had a chance. And that was the line. And she didn’t.


are the Russians feeding him this shit? he sounds like he's rehearsing lines and has no idea what he's talking about

	RADDATZ: What do you think will happen if Aleppo falls?

	TRUMP: I think Aleppo is a disaster, humanitarian-wise.

	RADDATZ: What do you think will happen if it falls?

	TRUMP: I think that it basically has fallen. OK? It basically has fallen. Let me tell you something. You take a look at Mosul. The biggest problem I have with the stupidity of our foreign policy, we have Mosul. They think a lot of the ISIS leaders are in Mosul. So we have announcements coming out of Washington and coming out of Iraq, we will be attacking Mosul in three weeks or four weeks.

	Well, all of these bad leaders from ISIS are leaving Mosul. Why can’t they do it quietly? Why can’t they do the attack, make it a sneak attack, and after the attack is made, inform the American public that we’ve knocked out the leaders, we’ve had a tremendous success? People leave. Why do they have to say we’re going to be attacking Mosul within the next four to six weeks, which is what they’re saying? How stupid is our country? RADDATZ: There are sometimes reasons the military does that. Psychological warfare.


funny he says this then warns Syria before his "strike"


------

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EQ0fyqk0o6Y


Trump "fine" with Putin running Syria


------


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/31/us/politics/trump-bashar-assad-syria.html
	WASHINGTON — President Trump has abandoned the goal of pressing President Bashar al-Assad of Syria to leave power, marking a sharp departure from the Middle East policy that guided the Obama administration for more than five years, the White House said on Friday.

	“With respect to Assad, there is a political reality that we have to accept,” said Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary.

	“The United States has profound priorities in Syria and Iraq, and we’ve made it clear that counterterrorism, particularly the defeat of ISIS, is foremost among those priorities,” he added, using the acronym for the Islamic State.

	In a sense, Mr. Spicer’s comments — and similar comments on Thursday by Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson and Nikki R. Haley, the United States ambassador to the United Nations — have merely made explicit an assumption that has guided the Trump administration’s policy toward the region in recent months.


so before the chemical attack at least seems pretty clear Trump admin in support of Assad

	But the comments have also stirred criticism, including from some Republican lawmakers, who assert that Syria will continue to be a magnet for extremists as long as Mr. Assad is in control of the country.

	“Trying to fight ISIS while pretending that we can ignore the Syrian civil war that was its genesis and fuels it to this day is a recipe for more war, more terror, more refugees, and more instability,” Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said Thursday night.


wtf is wrong with McCain? just point out Assad supports ISIS, Hezbolla, Al-Quaida, terrorism all over.

surely its not that hard to explain? just link to a few artices?

every member of Congress has staff, can do press releases

instead they have this tired meaningless rhetoric that nobody even understands


------

http://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/cease-fire-southern-syria-effect-48529472
	U.S. President Donald Trump called for expanded cooperation with Russia on Sunday, as a cease-fire brokered by the two powers and Jordan for southern Syria came into effect.

	The cease-fire covering three war-torn provinces in southern Syria is the first tangible outcome following months of strategy and diplomacy between the new Trump administration and Russian President Vladimir Putin's Moscow.

	Trump tweeted that the cease-fire, which came into effect at noon Sunday, "will save lives."

	"Now it is time to move forward in working constructively with Russia!" he posted on Twitter shortly after the agreement came into effect.


http://www.npr.org/sections/parallels/2017/07/17/537679035/heres-what-to-know-about-the-trump-putin-syria-cease-fire
	President Trump is touting a newly brokered cease-fire in southwest Syria as a major foreign policy win for his White House. After years of failed peace attempts under the Obama administration, Trump has boldly speculated that the new truce could mark the beginning of the end of the war.


why only in that area? that where Assad was losing?


	...Moscow has said it would be willing to dispatch military police to Syria to patrol the cease-fire lines. "That's a level of investment, a level of risk-taking that we haven't seen before," said Faysal Itani, senior fellow at the Washington-based Atlantic Council.

	For Russia, this is part of a wider effort to establish "de-escalation zones" in the country that would ultimately stabilize Syria while keeping the regime of Bashar Assad in power. Russia has vetoed United Nations Security Council measures against the Assad regime on eight separate occasions since 2011.


so the ceasfire is to keep Assad in power?


	...Trump tweeted that the cease-fire "will save lives." Eight days since it began, the areas it covers remain relatively calm.

	Civilians in Daraa city — where protests against the regime first began in 2011 — are living in respite from the airstrikes and barrel bombs that were decimating their neighborhoods.

	But in this cynical war, cease-fires are also an opportunity for the most powerful warring side — in this case, the regime and its allies, including Russia — to reorganize and redeploy forces. Damascus has used the quiet in the southwest to move troops up to eastern Ghouta, a suburb of the capital where opposition groups still have a strong foothold.


so it's just like Obama and Goerge Marshall



	Activists posted images on Twitter on Monday of dead children being pulled out from under the rubble of destroyed homes in eastern Ghouta, which they said was a result of an intensified air assault on the area.

	Aid workers charged with getting food and medicines smuggled into the besieged suburb also said the regime has escalated its offensive in the area.

	Issam al-Reis, a spokesman for the U.S.- and Jordan-supported Southern Front rebel group in southwest Syria, told NPR they would not stand idly by if the assault on eastern Ghouta continues.


so regime still attacking this area anyway... is it part of the ceasfire?


	In a further complication to Trump's ambitions, on Sunday, Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, took the unusual step of publicly attacking the cease-fire, saying Israel was "utterly opposed" to it.

	The truce zone backs onto the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights. Much of that Syrian territory is controlled by U.S.-backed rebel groups.

	But Israel fears Russia may not be willing or able to enforce the cease-fire. And if that is the case, it could see hostile, Iranian-funded fighters ultimately occupy the territory near its border.


I thought Trump said he had "strong support" for Isreal? guess not

	...Iranian-backed militia groups are providing the manpower to support the Assad regime on the front lines. The Syrian military has been decimated by the war. Shaikh estimated there may only be some 10,000 effective soldiers left. So militias funded by Tehran have stepped in. Hezbollah and other Shiite groups have incurred hundreds, if not thousands, of casualties.

	For the moment, Hezbollah and its allies are concentrating their firepower in eastern Syria — far from the current cease-fire area. Analysts say the groups are working to open a land route through Iraq and Syria through which they can be directly supplied.

	Iran was not party to the current cease-fire negotiations. And if it succeeds in the east, some analysts warn that a strengthened Hezbollah may ultimately be tempted to storm toward the Israeli border.


I thought he was going to be "tough on Iran?"
