https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/18/business/media/roger-ailes-dead.html?_r=0

he go out like Borodin?


	Although an Ailes admirer, Mr. Murdoch reluctantly concluded in the summer of 2016 that his news chief had to go after a former network anchor, Gretchen Carlson, brought a lawsuit charging Mr. Ailes with sexual harassment. Her action set in motion a cascade of allegations from women, who reported unwanted groping and demands for sex by him. Some of them described an overall culture of misogyny at Fox News. The scandal enveloped the network’s top star, Bill O’Reilly, whose employment was abruptly ended last month.


outed by sexual harrassment charges


	As recounted in “The Loudest Voice in the Room,” Gabriel Sherman’s 2014 biography of Mr. Ailes, a female producer looking to work for him at NBC said he had offered her an extra $100 a week “if you agree to have sex with me whenever I want.”

So what's up with this? is this guy on the "inside," a true member of the club? or just riding the wave? would seem to be a pointless liability for an agent with a mission

on the other hand, if he was near the top of the heap, he might figure he would "enjoy the spoils," or however they think of it

	Mr. Ailes’s interest in broadcasting was ignited at Ohio University, in Athens, where he worked on the college radio station before graduating in 1962.

	There, he met Marjorie White, the first of his three wives. Their 17-year marriage ended in 1977. His second wife was Norma Ferrer, a television producer, but that union ended, too, in 1995, after 14 years. His third wife, Elizabeth Tilson, was a program director at CNBC. 


So it's not like he's in the illegals program sticking with one spouse to maintain cover or anything. Looks like something different?

	They were married in 1998 at New York’s City Hall in a ceremony presided over by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a former Ailes political client.

but of course

	“Television is not a gimmick,” Mr. Ailes said boldly, “and if you think it is, you’ll lose again.”

	Nixon took those words to heart, and took the young man onto his campaign as a media adviser. Mr. Ailes strove to make Nixon more likable — no simple task — giving him a makeover that included town hall-style sessions with carefully screened audiences that asked easy questions and allowed the candidate to seem assured.

Ailes sounds like an operator

brings up the Nixon:Trump analogies

	Even then, he had visions of a right-of-center network, and played an important role in developing Television News Inc., or TVN, a news service financed by the ardently conservative Joseph Coors, of the beer-making family. Its slogan was one that would ring loudly years later: “fair and balanced.” TVN distributed news clips with a conservative slant to television networks and local stations. But it did not truly get off the ground, and collapsed in 1975 after two years.

TVN an early Fox News?

	As a campaign strategist, Mr. Ailes helped elect powerful Republican senators like Mitch McConnell, Phil Gramm and Alfonse M. D’Amato. But his most notable work was at the presidential level.

	When Mr. Reagan floundered for a while in his 1984 re-election campaign, Mr. Ailes coached him in ways to appear sharper in a televised debate and to display his innate affability. Four years later, the aggressive Ailes approach kicked into high gear in the presidential campaign of the elder George Bush. He coaxed Mr. Bush into sounding tough, to dispel a so-called wimp factor that hung over the candidate like a dark cloud.


this guy really was everywhere... interesting that the elder Bush was in with this crowd, didn't know that

	“People think I stayed in politics because I wanted conservatives to run the world,” he told The New York Times Magazine in 1995. “Actually, it was the money.”

oh ok

	Mr. Ailes relished his reputation as a battler. Take the time he punched that hole in the wall. “It was just a drywall, and luckily I didn’t hit any beams,” he told Zev Chafets, author of the biography “Roger Ailes: Off Camera.”

	“But somebody,” he said, “put a frame around the hole and wrote, ‘Don’t mess with Roger Ailes.’ ”

But in the end, it looks like somebody did mess with Roger Ailes. So it goes!


------

http://www.cnbc.com/2017/05/18/how-foxs-ailes-changed-cable-news.html

	"It made the news genre more of a consideration than it had been for many, many years," said the media buyer, who asked to remain anonymous.

	Gabriel Khan, a professor at the University of Southern California Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism, said what Ailes understood best is that Fox News needed to play to its key audience to win.


------

http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/how-roger-ailes-built-the-fox-news-fear-factory-20110525

	As for actual journalists? "Fuck 'em," Ailes said. "It’s not a press conference – it’s a television show. Our television show. And the press has no business on the set." The young producer forced reporters to watch the events backstage on a TV monitor – just like the rest of America. "Ailes figured out a way to bring reporters to heel," Perlstein says.

	..."I know certain techniques, such as a press release that looks like a newscast," he told The Washington Post in 1972. "So you use it because you want your man to win."

	...Bush proceeded to hit Rather below the belt. “It’s not fair to judge my whole career by a rehash on Iran,” he said. “How would you like it if I judged your career by those seven minutes when you walked off the set?” It was the mother of all false equivalencies: the fleeting petulance of a news anchor pitted against the high crimes of a sitting vice president. But it worked as TV. “That bite of Bush telling Rather off played over and over and over again,” says Roger Stone, an infamous political operative who worked with Ailes on the Nixon campaign. “It was a perfect example of Roger understanding the news cycle, the dynamics of the situation and the power of television.”


Ailes involved with Guilani, helped Bush win, advising him on war on terror--I didn't know that...

	“Rupert is surrounded by people who regularly, if not moment to moment, tell him how horrifying and dastardly Roger is,” says Wolff, the Murdoch biographer. “Wendi cannot stand Roger. Rupert’s children cannot stand Roger. So around Murdoch, Roger has no supporters, except for Roger himself.”

Isn't Wendi a spy too? what's going on here?

Not sure if I trust everything in this article anyway, seems a bit over the top? who knows...

	Fox & Friends is where the smear about Obama having attended a madrassa was first broadcast, with Doocy – an Ailes lackey from his days at America’s Talking – stating unequivocally that Obama was “raised as a Muslim.”

which is true though, isn't it?

	The phenomenal political power and economic prowess of Fox News has inspired imitation. In recent years, MSNBC has tried to refashion itself as the anti-Fox, with a prime-time lineup stacked with liberal commentators. Such contortions, say media veterans, only strengthen Fox News, emboldening Ailes to tack even further to the right. “He can say, ‘I’m not doing anything anyone else isn’t doing – I’m just doing it on the other side of the fence,’ ” says Dan Rather.

I knew it!

------

https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/contributors/2017/05/19/roger-ailes-changed-face-journalism/333090001/
	from a business-model standpoint, journalism attracts eyes to the medium, and holds them there long enough for advertising to do its work. As every good newspaperman will tell you, it is the advertising that pays the bills – not the subscription price.

	Roger Ailes understood this. As a media consultant and political campaign operative, Ailes didn’t possess the sense that some journalists have, of being a member of a sacred order, a special priesthood. He understood exactly where journalism stood in the pecking order of business and the demands for profits.

	More importantly, after working in the campaigns for such Republican luminaries as Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush and Rudy Giuliani, Roger Ailes knew how to read a poll. He understood the ways in which many Americans viewed journalism and how they longed for a medium that would reinforce, rather than negate, their values and viewpoints.

	...

	Roger Ailes had an enormous impact on journalism, in that the more establishment “brands” responded to the challenge of Fox News in ways that utterly wiped away what had existed before. Not only was their response to create programming that mimicked Fox (albeit in a mirror image way that appealed directly to more left-of-center audiences), but journalism – the reporting of news – was merged into the operations of the entertainment industry.

	The result is that journalism today suffers from a kind of image dysphoria, with many journalists confused as to who or what their profession is – and with many more stand-up comics, political activists, and average citizens believing that they too, are journalists. And the Internet has only expanded this confusion over what is or isn't journalism, by providing the technology and market reach to allow anyone to essentially start their own online newspaper.

	As a result, the practice of journalism and the veracity of journalists are less respected today than at any point in memory. This has made quite a few journalists apoplectic. I caught a news “talk” show the other day in which one journalist was outraged – screaming – because another member of the panel didn’t take her “anonymous sources” seriously. Why would he? Nobody takes any of it seriously.

	Roger Ailes didn’t make this new world alone. He merely reacted to the open bias of the 1992 election and understood that there was a huge market of consumers out there who weren’t happy either. However, his creation was so successful and the reaction to it such that the old journalism that we knew was swept away. Perhaps, forever.

wow that's harsh


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-twenty-first-fox-ailes-newsmaker-idUSKCN1012RM
	"Before Roger, everyone in journalism was obligated to strive to be objective," said Dan Cooper, an executive who worked with Ailes in the early days of Fox News Channel. "Now, bias is considered a positive. He demolished the objective standard in journalism."

Right, so basically everybody says Ailes destroyed journalism--maybe on purpose?

	Republican Rep. Darrell Issa of California, a regular on the network, said Ailes presented a "centrist truth" that people couldn't find elsewhere and included both sides of a debate.

	"What Roger built I believe will be preserved and maintained because it's simply good capitalism," said Issa, a favorite of Fox for having led the charge, in his former role as chairman of the House Oversight Committee, to investigate the attack in Benghazi and the IRS.

Wow well fuck him then

Is it not obvious to anyone else that Ailes was a Russian agent?
