https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bashar_al-Assad
	On 16 July 2014, Assad was sworn in for another seven-year term after receiving 88.7% of votes in the first contested presidential election in Ba'athist Syria's history.[4][5][6] The election was dismissed as a "sham" by the Syrian opposition and its Western allies,[7][8] while an international delegation who observed the election issued a statement asserting that the election was "free and fair".[9] The Assad government describes itself as secular,[10] while some political scientists have claimed that the government exploits sectarian tensions in the country and relies upon the Alawite minority to remain in power.


rigged election?


	...After the death of Hafez al-Assad on 10 June 2000, the Constitution of Syria was amended; the minimum age requirement for the presidency was lowered from 40 to 34, which was Bashar's age at the time.[48] Assad was then elected president on 10 July 2000, with 99.7% support for his leadership. In line with his role as President of Syria, he was also appointed commander-in-chief of the Syrian Armed Forces and General Secretary of the Ba'ath Party.


weird


	Immediately after he took office, a reform movement made cautious advances during the Damascus Spring, which led to the shut down of Mezzeh prison and the declaration of a wide-ranging amnesty releasing hundreds of Muslim Brotherhood affiliated political prisoners.[49] However, security crackdowns commenced again within the year.[50][51] Many analysts stated that reform under Assad has been inhibited by the "old guard", members of the government loyal to his late father.


something going on there? assad a KGB puppet maybe?


started with remforms sounds like, then something made him change his mind


	...On 10 January 2012, Assad gave a speech in which he maintained the uprising was engineered by foreign countries and proclaimed that "victory [was] near".


"paid protestors!!!"


	...On 27 February 2012, Syria claimed that a proposal that a new constitution be drafted received 90% support during the relevant referendum. The referendum introduced a fourteen-year cumulative term limit for the president of Syria. The referendum was pronounced meaningless by foreign nations including the U.S. and Turkey; the European Union announced fresh sanctions against key regime figures.


so all sorts of convenient constitutional ammendments keeping him in power


	...On 22 January 2016, the Financial Times, citing anonymous "senior western intelligence officials", claimed that Russian general Igor Sergun, the director of GRU, the Main Intelligence Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, had shortly before his sudden death on 3 January 2016 been sent to Damascus with a message from Vladimir Putin asking that President Assad step aside.[109] The Financial Times' report was promptly denied by Putin′s spokesman.


weird, what's up with that?

seems Russian intelligence wouldn't want him out of they can control him?


	...The Federal Bureau of Investigation has claimed that at least 10 European citizens were tortured by the Assad government while detained during the Syrian Civil War, potentially leaving Assad open to prosecution by individual European countries for war crimes.[143] Stephen Rapp, the United States Ambassador-at-Large for War Crimes Issues, has argued that the crimes allegedly committed by Assad are the worst seen since those of Nazi Germany.[144] In March 2015, Rapp further stated that the case against Assad is "much better" than those against Slobodan Milošević of Serbia or Charles Taylor of Liberia, both of whom were indicted by international tribunals.[145]

	In a February 2015 interview with the BBC, Assad described accusations that the Syrian Arab Air Force used barrel bombs as "childish", stating that his forces have never used these types of "barrel" bombs and responded with a joke about not using "cooking pots" either.[146] The BBC Middle East editor conducting the interview, Jeremy Bowen, later described Assad's statement regarding barrel bombs as "patently not true".


FBI got him in war crimes? but Assad jokes about using barrel bombs

seems to be a fucked-up guy


------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bashar_al-Assad
	Assad opposed the 2003 invasion of Iraq despite a long-standing animosity between the Syrian and Iraqi governments. Assad used Syria's seat in one of the rotating positions on the United Nations Security Council to try to prevent the invasion of Iraq.


strange


	...The U.S commander of the coalition forces in Iraq, George W. Casey Jr., accused Assad of providing funding, logistics, and training to insurgents in Iraq to launch attacks against U.S. and allied forces occupying Iraq.[158] Iraqi leaders such as former national security advisor Mowaffak al-Rubaie and former Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki have accused Assad of harbouring and supporting Iraqi militants.


So Assad helped make Iraq a "quagmire?"


http://www.cnn.com/2002/WORLD/meast/12/16/sproject.iraq.assad/
	 Assad, speaking during a landmark first official visit to Britain by a Syrian leader, said Baghdad was cooperating with U.N. weapons inspectors hunting its alleged weapons of mass destruction.

	"No one is seeking war... Anybody who looks for war as a goal in itself is psychologically ill," Assad said. "But I am optimistic now. What we have seen is good cooperation from the Iraqi government and we hope this cooperation will continue until this crisis is solved peacefully." 

	...Assad brushed aside earlier calls from Britain to rein in Palestinian terrorist organisations operating in his country, insisting only "press officers" existed.

	He added: "Of course we don't have, in Syria, organisations supporting terrorism. We have press officers... (who) express the opinions of Palestinians inside Palestine and outside Palestine.

	"Palestinians have a right to have someone to express their opinion."

	Following the talks with Assad, Blair later told the UK parliament that he was inviting Palestinian leaders to London in the New Year to discuss how to revive the Middle East peace process. 


https://www.meforum.org/meib/articles/0304_s2.htm
	Although the rapid demise of Saddam Hussein's regime and the deployment of American forces along the Syria-Iraq border may have led to a suspension of Syrian assistance to the Iraqi war effort, the effects of Syria's most decisive contribution to the Iraqi war effort will likely be felt for months to come. Efforts by Syrian President Bashar Assad to mobilize thousands of non-Iraqi "volunteers" to fight the United States and facilitate their entry into the Iraqi theater through Syrian territory have a striking historical precedent - his father's successful war by proxy against US and European peacekeepers in Lebanon during the early 1980s. The goal of that campaign - to prevent the restoration of Lebanese democracy - bears an eerie resemblance to Syria's objective today.

	In early March, Iraqi intelligence opened a training camp for Arab "martyrs" near the town of al-Khalis, 40 miles north of Baghdad. Over the next few weeks, Syrian-backed political and terrorist organizations undertook a massive mobilization campaign in Syria and Syrian-occupied Lebanon.


coordinating with KGB? Maybe Assad is a willing accomplice for their more global schemes

supporting terrorists too


------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bashar_al-Assad
	During the Syrian Civil War, multiple opposition and anti-Assad parties in the conflict accused Assad of collusion with ISIS; several sources have claimed that ISIS prisoners were strategically released from Syrian prisons at the beginning of the Syrian Civil War in 2011.[197] It has also been reported that the Syrian government has bought oil directly from ISIL.[198] A businessman operating in both government and ISIL-controlled territory has claimed that "out of necessity" the Assad government has "had dealings with ISIS."[199] At its height, ISIS was making $40 million a month from the sale of oil, with spreadsheets and accounts kept by oil boss Abu Sayyaf suggesting the majority of the oil was sold to the Syrian government.[200][198] In 2014, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry claimed that the Assad government has tactically avoided ISIS forces in order to weaken "moderate opposition" such as the Free Syrian Army,[201] as well as "purposely ceding some territory to them [ISIS] in order to make them more of a problem so he can make the argument that he is somehow the protector against them".[202] A Jane's Defence Weekly database analysis claimed that only a small percentage of the Syrian government's attacks were targeted at ISIS in 2014.[203] The Syrian National Coalition has stated that the Assad government has operatives inside ISIS,[204] as has the leadership of Ahrar al-Sham.[205] ISIS members captured by the FSA have claimed that they were directed to commit attacks by Assad regime operatives.[206] Aymenn Jawad Al-Tamimi disputed such assertions in February 2014, arguing that "ISIS has a record of fighting the regime on multiple fronts", many rebel factions have engaged in oil sales to the Syrian regime because it is "now largely dependent on Iraqi oil imports via Lebanese and Egyptian third-party intermediaries", and while "the regime is focusing its airstrikes [on areas] where it has some real expectations of advancing" claims that it "has not hit ISIS strongholds" are "untrue". He concluded: "Attempting to prove an ISIS-regime conspiracy without any conclusive evidence is unhelpful, because it draws attention away from the real reasons why ISIS grew and gained such prominence: namely, rebel groups tolerated ISIS."[207]


Assad colluding with ISIS


a better enemy for him than the moderate rebels I imagine?

	...On 1 June 2015, the United States stated that the Assad government was "making air-strikes in support" of an ISIS advance on Syrian opposition positions north of Aleppo.[212] Referring to the same ISIS offensive, the president of the Syrian National Coalition (SNC) Khaled Koja accused Assad of acting "as an air force for ISIS",[213] with the Defence Minister of the SNC Salim Idris claiming that approximately 180 Assad-linked officers were serving in ISIS and coordinating the group's attacks with the Syrian Arab Army.[214] Christopher Kozak of the Institute for the Study of War claims that "Assad sees the defeat of ISIS in the long term and prioritizes in the more short-and medium-term, trying to cripple the more mainline Syrian opposition [...] ISIS is a threat that lots of people can rally around and even if the regime trades … territory that was in rebel hands over to ISIS control, that weakens the opposition, which has more legitimacy [than ISIS]".


right


------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bashar_al-Assad
	In 2014, the Christian Syriac Military Council, the largest Christian organization in Syria, formed an alliance with the Free Syrian Army opposed to Assad,[236] joining other Syrian Christian militias such as the Sutoro who had joined the Syrian opposition against the Assad government.


Assad killing Christians makes Trumps support for him even harder to defend


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-middle-east-22270455
	Many fear that if President Assad is overthrown, Christians will be targeted and communities destroyed as many were in Iraq after the US-led invasion in 2003. They have also been concerned by the coming to power of Islamist parties in post-revolutionary Egypt and Tunisia.

	Some communities are reported to have taken up offers from the government to arm groups of youths, called "popular committees", to defend themselves from rebel attacks.

	Other Christians are believed to be assisting the opposition. Many are active in political groups such as the Syrian National Council, whose leader, the veteran communist George Sabra, is from a Christian family. The Local Co-ordination Committees, an opposition activist network, also includes Christians.

	Christian opposition activists have accused the government of stoking sectarian tensions, including by using Alawite-led security forces and Alawite militiamen to target Sunni civilians, and overplaying the threat posed by the rebels to Syria's minorities.


sounds complicated


------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bashar_al-Assad
	In response to Executive Order 13769 which mandated refugees from Syria be indefinitely suspended from being able to resettle in the United States, Assad stated that he believes President Trump's intentions were to protect the United States from terrorists. He explained "It's not against the Syrian people, it's against the terrorists that would infiltrate some of the immigrants to the West. And that happened. It happened in Europe, mainly in Germany and could happen in the United States in the future."[182] This reaction was in contrast to other leaders of countries affected by the Executive Order who condemned it.


another instance of going against his own country's interests in favor of Russia's


------



http://www.bbc.com/news/world-middle-east-25189834
	UN implicates Bashar al-Assad in Syria war crimes

	2 December 2013


such as?


------


http://www.terrorism-info.org.il/en/article/454
	The Syrian régime, both the former, controlled by the late president Hafiz al-Assad and the current, controlled by his son Bashar, is infected with anti-Semitism. The comments made by Bashar, the anti-Semitic bias of the Syrian media (including the production of anti-Semitic TV shows such as The Exile1) and the publication of anti-Semitic books (including the new edition of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion) have all given witness to it.


from 2003:

https://www.memri.org/reports/interview-bashar-al-assad-arab-defense-agreement-should-be-implemented-long-israel-exists-it
	'Israel Will Not Be a Legitimate State Even If Peace Is Accomplished'

	Assad: "…They [the Americans] removed their masks and said that they wanted oil and that they wanted to re-draw the map of the region in accordance with the Israeli interests. Israel has a vested interest in dividing Iraq into small ethnic, national and ethnic mini-countries, so that Israel could enjoy legitimacy. There are countries in the Middle East with diverse nationalities, but they have social and historic cohesiveness. Despite the ethnic diversity within each nation, the social fabric of the region by and large is one. On the other hand, the [social] structure in Israel is an anomaly. It is a country with one characteristic, which is a religious characteristic. Its democracy stems from this characteristic. It is not a democracy based on the state's boundaries. Therefore, it is inconceivable that Israel will become a legitimate state even if the peace process is implemented, because its structure deviates from the region's norm, and maybe from the whole world…" 

	'Israel Controls the American Administration, Therefore Re-Designing the Region Will Serve Its Interests'


the fuck is he on about?

Assad a conspiracy theorist?

	Question: "The Israeli threats against Syria, Lebanon, and Hizbullah continue, especially these days. What do you make of that especially in regard to the opinion that under the guise of the war against Iraq, Lebanon – and especially Hizbullah – will be targeted?"

	Assad: "These threats continue regardless of the war. It would be a mistake to link anything that Israel does to a certain circumstance. And it is a mistake to feel comfortable in any circumstance just because Israel did not act on it."

	"…None of us and none of the Arabs trust Israel. It is natural that we should always expect an Israeli attack, even when it does not threaten. It should be known that Israel is based on treachery. This is a point to be considered thoroughly. We are dealing with treachery and threats, which accompanied the establishment of Israel. Since its very inception, Israel has been a threat. It is the Israeli nature, and for that Israel was established. Based on this understanding of Israel's nature and role, we should deal with the possibility of protracted aggression…Israel does not care about the international public opinion. The U.S. is unable to reign it in; to the contrary, the Israelis are the ones who control [the U.S.] now through their lobby. The most important issue, as far as we are concerned, is that our position is just, and we should explain it… Secondly, we should prepare ourselves to be ready to deal with any Israeli attack. This point does not need any analysis. This is what we have done in Syria throughout history…" 


so what, he believes the protocols?


------


http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2014/04/bashar-al-assads-deadly-loophole-in-syria-deal/
	 The Obama administration's top accomplishment on Syria - a deal in which President Bashar al-Assad would surrender his chemical weapons - risks being undermined by substantial, potentially deadly loopholes in the agreement.

	Secretary of State John Kerry touted on Tuesday the fact that Syria had given up almost all its declared chemical weapons and would finish the process by the end-of-April deadline.

	"We now have the majority percentage of chemical weapons moved out of Syria, and we're moving on schedule to try to complete that task," he said at a State Department event.

	But events in Syria paint a more complicated picture of Assad's continued ability to kill civilians with chemical weapons.

	Earlier this month, the Assad regime allegedly used chlorine gas - a weapon Syria is not required to relinquish - against civilians in the town of Kafr Zita, causing victims to suffocate, choke, vomit, foam at the mouth and develop hypertension, according to a letter from the head of the Syrian Coalition, a Western-approved opposition group, to the United Nations Security Council.


https://www.yahoo.com/news/un-probe-accuses-damascus-extermination-detainees-131405484.html
	Geneva (AFP) - UN investigators accused the Syrian government Monday of "extermination" in its jails and detention centres, saying prisoners have been executed, tortured to death or held in such horrific conditions that they perished.

	Thousands of detainees have been killed while being held by different sides in Syria's brutal conflict since the violence began nearly five years ago, the UN commission of inquiry on Syria said in its latest report.

	The report painted a particularly stark picture of prisons and detention centres run by the Syrian authorities.

	"The mass scale of deaths of detainees suggests that the government of Syria is responsible for acts that amount to extermination as a crime against humanity," commission head Paulo Pinheiro told reporters in Geneva.

	The report adds to a huge body of evidence from the commission and others, detailing horrific abuse, torture and killings in Syrian-run jails.

	The so-called "Caesar Report" released in early 2014, for instance, contained some 55,000 photographs depicting the tortured and abused bodies of around 11,000 people it said had died in Syrian jails during the first two years of the conflict.

	...The survivors had detailed how their cellmates were beaten to death during interrogation or in their cells, or left to die of severe injuries sustained from gruesome torture.

	One witness described how an elderly man held at a military security branch in Homs had been severely beaten and then hung from his wrists from the ceiling.

	"The guards burned his eyes with a cigarette and pierced his body with a heated, sharp metal object," the report said, adding that "after hanging in the same position for three hours, the man died."


------


http://www.newsweek.com/how-syrias-assad-helped-forge-isis-255631
	How Syria’s Assad Helped Forge ISIS
	By Simon Speakman Cordall On 6/21/14


	Mohammed Al-Saud is under no illusions. “In 2011, the majority of the current ISIS leadership was released from jail by Bashar Al Assad,” he said. “No one in the regime has ever admitted this, or explained why.” Al-Saud, a Syrian dissident with the National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, left Syria under threat of arrest in 2011.

	Others were not so lucky. In 2006, Syrian Tarek Alghorani was sentenced to seven years in jail for the contents of his blog. 


so normal anti-Assad people get arrested, crazy ones get released

	...“The situation in there was like the middle ages. There were too many people and not enough space. There wasn’t enough water to drink. There wasn’t enough food to eat and what there was would have been ignored by dogs in the street. Torture was an everyday reality. After years in there, all of those people became Salafists and in a bad, bad way.” 


this done on purpose?

	His fellow prisoners were members of ISIS. “Abu Muhammad al-Joulani, (founder of the Jihadist group, Jabhat al-Jabhat al-Nusra) was rumored to be there. Mohammed Haydar Zammar, (one of the organisers of the 9/11 attacks) was there. This is where the Syrian part of ISIS was born,” he said.

	Alghorani is convinced that members of ISIS were released strategically by Assad. “From the first days of the revolution (in March 2011), Assad denounced the organisation as being the work of radical Salafists, so he released the Salafists he had created in his prisons to justify the claim ... If you do not have an enemy, you create an enemy.”


Alghorani thinks so

	Fellow Syrians agree. “The regime did not just open the door to the prisons and let these extremists out, it facilitated them in their work, in their creation of armed brigades,” a former member of the Syrian Security Services told the Abu Dhabi newspaper, the National, on condition of anonymity in January this year.


And Syrian Security services


	“The regime knew what these people were. It knew what they wanted and the extent of their networks. Then it released them. These are the same people who are now in Iraq,” Al-Saud added.

	“In jail, you have leaders, then you have leaders of leaders. Things form their own structure,” Alghorani recalled. “When these guys were released they all became leaders. They all developed their own followers. My jail was an academy for radical Salafist fighters.”


a breeding ground for monsters--sounds familiar


http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/middleeast/syria/10585391/Syrias-Assad-accused-of-boosting-al-Qaeda-with-secret-oil-deals.html
	7:53PM GMT 20 Jan 2014

	 The Syrian regime of President Bashar al-Assad has funded and co-operated with al-Qaeda in a complex double game even as the terrorists fight Damascus, according to new allegations by Western intelligence agencies, rebels and al-Qaeda defectors.

	Jabhat al-Nusra, and the even more extreme Islamic State of Iraq and al-Shams (ISIS), the two al-Qaeda affiliates operating in Syria, have both been financed by selling oil and gas from wells under their control to and through the regime, intelligence sources have told The Daily Telegraph.

	Rebels and defectors say the regime also deliberately released militant prisoners to strengthen jihadist ranks at the expense of moderate rebel forces. The aim was to persuade the West that the uprising was sponsored by Islamist militants including al-Qaeda as a way of stopping Western support for it.

	The allegations by Western intelligence sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, are in part a public response to demands by Assad that the focus of peace talks due to begin in Switzerland tomorrow be switched from replacing his government to co-operating against al-Qaeda in the “war on terrorism”. 

so funding, releasing prisoners

	 Intelligence gathered by Western secret services suggested the regime began collaborating actively with these groups again in the spring of 2013. When Jabhat al-Nusra seized control of Syria’s most lucrative oil fields in the eastern province of Deir al-Zour, it began funding its operations in Syria by selling crude oil, with sums raised in the millions of dollars.

	“The regime is paying al-Nusra to protect oil and gas pipelines under al-Nusra’s control in the north and east of the country, and is also allowing the transport of oil to regime-held areas,” the source said. “We are also now starting to see evidence of oil and gas facilities under ISIS control.” 


Also funding al-Nusra at some point

	But the fury is also an indication that they suspect they have been outmanoeuvred by Assad, who has during his rule alternated between waging war on Islamist militants and working with them.

	After September 11, he co-operated with the United States’ rendition programme for militant suspects; after the invasion of Iraq, he helped al-Qaeda to establish itself in Western Iraq as part of an axis of resistance to the West; then when the group turned violently against the Iraqi Shias who were backed by Assad’s key ally, Iran, he began to arrest them again. 


well you'd think Western intelligence is better than Syria's--how'd they do it?


	As the uprising against his rule began, Assad switched again, releasing al-Qaeda prisoners. It happened as part of an amnesty, said one Syrian activist who was released from Sednaya prison near Damascus at the same time.

	“There was no explanation for the release of the jihadis,” the activist, called Mazen, said. “I saw some of them being paraded on Syrian state television, accused of being Jabhat al-Nusra and planting car bombs. This was impossible, as they had been in prison with me at the time the regime said the bombs were planted. He was using them to promote his argument that the revolution was made of extremists.” 


so releasing extremist prisoners, using them for propaganda purposes to poison the well of opposition


	Other activists and former Sednaya inmates corroborated his account, and analysts have identified a number of former prisoners now at the head of militant groups, including Jabhat al-Nusra, ISIS and a third group, Ahrar al-Sham, which fought alongside Jabhat al-Nusra but has now turned against ISIS.

	One former inmate said he had been in prison with “Abu Ali” who is now the head of the ISIS Sharia court in the north-eastern al-Qaeda-run city of Raqqa. Another said he knew leaders in Raqqa and Aleppo who were prisoners in Sednaya until early 2012. 


so a lot of them end up leading ISIS, other terrorist groups


	These men then spearheaded the gradual takeover of the revolution from secular activists, defected army officers and more moderate Islamist rebels. 

	Syrian intelligence has historically had close connections with extremist groups. In an interview with The Daily Telegraph after he defected, Nawaf al-Fares, a Syrian security chief, told how he was part of an operation to smuggle jihadist volunteers into Iraq from Syria after the 2003 invasion.

	Aron Lund, editor of a website, Syria in Crisis, used by the Carnegie Endowment to monitor the war, said: “The regime has done a good job in trying to turn the revolution Islamist. The releases from Sednaya prison are a good example of this. The regime claims that it released the prisoners because Assad had shortened their sentences as part of a general amnesty. But it seems to have gone beyond that. There are no random acts of kindness from this regime.”

	Rebels both inside and outside ISIS also say they believe the regime targeted its attacks on non-militant groups, leaving ISIS alone. “We were confident that the regime would not bomb us,” an ISIS defector, who called himself Murad, said. “We always slept soundly in our bases.” 


so Assad created ISIS?

anyone help him?


------


http://time.com/3719129/assad-isis-asset/

	The regime of Syrian President Bashar Assad has long had a pragmatic approach to the Islamic State of Iraq and Greater Syria (ISIS), says a Syrian businessman with close ties to the government. Even from the early days the regime purchased fuel from ISIS-controlled oil facilities, and it has maintained that relationship throughout the conflict. “Honestly speaking, the regime has always had dealings with ISIS, out of necessity.”


	...The businessman cites Raqqa’s mobile phone service as an example of how there is commerce between the regime, Syrian businesses, and ISIS. The country’s two main mobile phone operators still work in Raqqa. “Both operators send engineers to ISIS-controlled areas to repair damages at the towers,” he says. In addition, there are regular shipments of food to Raqqa. “ISIS charges a small tax for all trucks bringing food into Raqqa [including the businessman’s trucks], and they give receipts stamped with the ISIS logo. It is all very well organized.”


	...And, he notes, ISIS pays well — slightly less than the pre-war norms but a fortune in a war-torn economy: engineers for the oil and gas fields are paid $2,500 a month. Doctors get $1,500. Non-Syrians get an expatriate allowance, “a financial package that makes it worthwhile to work for ISIS,” says the businessman.

	Assad does not see ISIS as his primary problem, the businessman says. "The regime fears the Free Syrian Army and the Nusra Front, not ISIS. They [the FSA and Nusra] state their goal is to remove the President. But ISIS doesn’t say that. They have never directly threatened Damascus.” As the businessman notes, the strikes on ISIS targets are minimal. “If the regime were serious about getting rid of ISIS, they would have bombed Raqqa by now. Instead they bomb other cities, where the FSA is strong.” That said, the businessman does not believe that the regime has a formal relationship with ISIS, just a pragmatic one. “The more powerful ISIS grows, the more they are useful for the regime. They make America nervous, and the Americans in turn see the regime as a kind of bulwark against ISIS.”


Assad mostly doesn't bother with ISIS

	A senior Western diplomat who specializes in the Syrian civil war agrees that ISIS is seen as an asset by Assad. “They will do whatever it takes to devalue the opposition, even if it means strengthening ISIS. They know that if it comes to choosing between the black flag [of ISIS] and Damascus, the international community will choose Damascus.” And the strategy has worked extremely well. “The way it’s going now, it’s a matter of months, not even a year, that the moderate opposition is so weakened that it won’t be a factor anymore. So in just a few months from now the regime will be able to achieve its strategic goal of forcing the world to choose between Damascus and the black flags.”


a plot that Obama and Trump seem happy to play into


	So by ignoring the conflict between the Syrian opposition and the Assad regime to focus purely on ISIS may solve problems in the short term, says the diplomat, “but there will be more problems to come. These are the ingredients for a further escalation of the conflict — alienating large parts of the Sunni population, so that they have no choice but to join ISIS. Not for ideological reasons, but because they will do whatever it takes to overthrow the regime in Damascus.” Not only that, it will widen the geographical boundaries of the conflict by making this a fight of all Sunnis. “It’s a clear recipe for further escalation well beyond the geographical boundaries of the current conflict.”


will help destablize more of the world?


------


http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/isis-terror/syria-isis-have-been-ignoring-each-other-battlefield-data-suggests-n264551
	 Syria's military and ISIS may be sworn enemies but instead of wiping each other off the battlefield they have been delicately dancing around each other, according to new data exclusively obtained by NBC News.

	Both sides in the bloody conflict appear to be eliminating smaller rivals ahead of a possible final showdown.

	Around 64 percent of verifiable ISIS attacks in Syria this year targeted other non-state groups, an analysis of the IHS Jane's Terrorism and Insurgency Center's (JTIC) database showed. Just 13 percent of the militants' attacks during the same period — the year through Nov. 21 — targeted Syrian security forces. That's a stark contrast to the Sunni extremist group's operations in Iraq, where more than half of ISIS attacks (54 percent) were aimed at security forces. 


ISIS mostly backing off from attacking Assad?


	Syrian President Bashar Assad has been accused of encouraging the rise of Islamist extremist groups, like ISIS, in order to discredit opposition to his rule. He lashed out at the suggestion in a recent interview with Paris Match, describing ISIS as an enemy and saying that the "army is winning" its fight against terrorists. 

	 However, JTIC's data shows that his counterterrorism operations — more than two-thirds of which were airstrikes — skew heavily towards groups whose names aren't ISIS. Of 982 counterterrorism operations for the year up through Nov. 21, just 6 percent directly targeted ISIS.

	Henman said the figures suggest ISIS and Assad’s security forces have embraced the "clever strategy" of mostly “ignoring each other.” 


I wonder how much of this was coordinated? if ISIS inflitrated by KGB or Syrian intelligence


	For now, ISIS appears focused on emerging as the dominant Islamist, non-state actors and operating in areas where Assad's troops have largely withdrawn. Assad is focused on destroying opposition to his rule from the same groups ISIS wants to dominate — and engaging more in recent months with ISIS as that comes to pass.

	“They both recognize there’s a mutual benefit in crushing other groups,” Henman said. That's because eventually ISIS is going to have to take on Assad's government — and both sides want the battlefield to be clear of other potential competitors. 

	...Just ask Abu Hafs, a local ISIS leader from Aleppo who is intent on expanding the militants' Islamic state —or caliphate. 

	"We are not ignoring the Syrian regime but we are focusing on the rebel areas," he explained to NBC News. "You can't jump to step two. You have to do the first step first. To fight successfully against Bashar Assad's regime, we must first take over the rebel areas." 


they even admit it


	Some rebels suspect coordination between the Syrian regime and ISIS. Yusuf Abu Abdullah, one of the leaders of the Al-Mujaheddin Army in Aleppo, said when his fighters have attacked regime bases, they have come under separate attacks from ISIS. That's forced them to withdraw and battle the other militants instead of Assad's forces.

	"Most of the front lines between ISIS and the regime are very quiet — you wouldn't even hear the sound of firing," he said. "The exact opposite is on our frontlines, which are very dangerous and where the fights don't stop for 24 hours." 


how curious


------


https://www.channel4.com/news/is-assad-isis-rebel-forces-iraq-syria
	David Butter, a leading expert on Syria and an associate fellow at think-tank Chatham House, told Channel 4 News that the links between Isis and Syrian intelligence date back to the aftermath of the Iraq war of 2003.  
	
	“The leaders Isis have already worked hand in glove with Syrian intelligence, whether supplying them with weapons or supplying money flowing from their racketeering activities around Mosul.”

	He added: “Intelligence officers will have almost certainly forged links during that time and there has almost certainly been some degree of regime manipulation. To what extent one is actually controlling the other is more difficult.”


https://www.middleeastmonitor.com/20140922-exclusive-shaikh-hassan-abbouds-final-interview/
	He provided me with several hours of in-depth analysis, with some startling accusations thrown in, which included his claims that ISIS is:

    Not Islamic;
    Supported directly or indirectly by the Assad regime;
    Trained by the head of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards;
    Using Islam as a Trojan horse; and
    Conceived and funded by supporters of Assad.

	Had these comments come from anyone else I would have dismissed them as a bit of hyperbole in a war where words are used as much as weapons to inflict maximum damage. However, in the few months that I’d come to know Abboud, who was also known as Abu Abdullah Al-Hamawi, he didn’t strike me as the sort of man to indulge in wild speculation or deliberately misleading propaganda.


who is this guy


http://english.alarabiya.net/en/News/middle-east/2014/01/21/Al-Qaeda-detainees-reveal-ties-with-Assad.html
	Al-Qaeda detainees reveal ties with Assad

	The FSA, joined with other moderate rebel groups, declared a war on ISIS, accusing it of cooperating with the regime of President Bashar al-Assad and of seeking to divide rebels.

	Ever since the fighting broke out many in both sides were killed or detained. Some of those al-Qaeda members who fell to rebels’ hands said ISIS had ties with the Syrian regime.

	“It happened once that a Syrian regime officer and 11 others defected and drove their vehicle through Masila [north of Raqqa]. We received ordered to arrest them and hand them over back to the regime,” a detained al-Qaeda member said.


that's suspicious


	He said ISIS was behind a bombing that destroyed Raqqa’s train station last year. “We received orders from Commander Abu Anas al-Iraqi to bomb the train station. We were also ordered to fire on ambulances and civilians trying to reach the victims,” he said.

	Abu Anas al-Iraqi leads an al-Qaeda brigade in the province of Raqqa. He is nicknamed al-Iraqi after his country Iraq, where he used to work as an intelligence officer, according to another detainee.

	“Abu Anas is financed directly by the regime, through Iran and Iraq. His brigade is specialized in kidnappings, car bombs and targeted assassinations of FSA members,” the detainee said.

	While several ISIS members shown on the video were reportedly captured during fighting, many said they defected after realizing the brutality and the agenda of the al-Qaeda affiliate.


saying this guy working for Syrian government to divide the rebels


------

http://www.haaretz.com/middle-east-news/1.659340

Haaretz saying Assad behind ISIS, in agreement with other reports, but haaretz usually puts out Russian porpaganda


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Center_S
	Center S (Центр С in Cyrillic script) was a secret, joint, Russian–Syrian signals intelligence 'spy' post near Al-Harra in southwestern Syria close to the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights.[1]

	Presumably existing since before 2006, it was run over by Free Syrian Army rebels on 5 October 2014 during the Daraa offensive (October 2014).

	...The Center was on the peak of Tel Al-Hara Mountain, adjacent to the town of Al-Harra in the western part of the al-Sanamayn District of the Daraa Governorate, near the Quneitra Governorate. The Center was operated on a joint Russian-Syrian basis, with Syrian Intelligence and the OSNAZ unit of the Russian GRU monitoring signals intelligence from Syrian rebels, as well as the Israel Defense Forces.[


https://web.archive.org/web/20150409230208/https://www.bellingcat.com/news/mena/2014/10/06/captured-russian-spy-facility-reveals-the-extent-of-russian-aid-to-the-assad-regime-2/
	It is unknown if the facility is named Center S (‘S’ for Syria or special), it is known there’s at least one other Russian-Syrian SIGINT facility around, named Center S-2.  A badge commemorating the ten year anniversary of this other spy facility can be seen below.


around for 10 years as of 2014?


https://web.archive.org/web/20161230024006/http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/russia/11148857/Russian-spy-base-in-Syria-used-to-monitor-rebels-and-Israel-seized.html
	The extent of Russian-Syrian intelligence and military cooperation is vast and has been established for many decades.

	In 2006, Jane's defence journal reported that Hezbollah was receiving intelligence from two Russian-Syrian intelligence posts during its war with Israel, one of which was identified as being located on the Golan Heights.

	The discovery of Centre C is "definitely not surprising", security analyst Daniel Nisman, head of the geopolitical risk consultancy 'Levantine Group' in Tel Aviv, told the Telegraph.

	"The Russians have had varying levels of activity and personnel in Syria since the Cold War", said Mr Nisman. "There are [also] all sorts of different Russian personnel embedded with different Syrian units. 


reminds me of Japans military c. 1930

	...According to Jane's, the funding for the intelligence posts comes largely from Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). 


Iran involved




------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/as-russia-reasserts-itself-us-intelligence-agencies-focus-anew-on-the-kremlin/2016/09/14/cc212c62-78f0-11e6-ac8e-cf8e0dd91dc7_story.html?utm_term=.f718b8a2bc33
	As Russia reasserts itself, U.S. intelligence agencies focus anew on the Kremlin


	 By Greg Miller September 14, 2016

	U.S. intelligence agencies are expanding spying operations against Russia on a greater scale than at any time since the end of the Cold War, U.S. officials said.

	The mobilization involves clandestine CIA operatives, National Security Agency cyberespionage capabilities, satellite systems and other intelligence assets, officials said, describing a shift in resources across spy services that had previously diverted attention from Russia to focus on terrorist threats and U.S. war zones.


weird for Miller to be reporting this?
