
https://www.indymedia.org.uk/en/regions/london/2005/07/318875.html
	The correspondent: Everyone, whom you have named, is “the old staff” of the KGB. Could you bring a fresher example?

	A. Litvinenko: Certainly, here it is. The second person in the terrorist organization "Al Qa'eda", about whom they speak as about the organizer of the series of explosions in London , Aiman al-Zavahiri, is an old agent of the FSB. Being sentenced to death penalty in Egypt for terrorism and searched by the Interpol, Aiman al-Zavahiri in 1998 was in the territory of Dagestan , where for half a year was trained a special preparation at one of the educational bases of the FSB. After the preparation he was transferred to Afghanistan , in which he had never been before and where, following the recommendation of his Lubyanka chiefs, he at once after the arrival penetrated into the surrounding of Ben Laden and soon became his assistant in the "Al Qa'eda".

	The correspondent: Could you hint at least, where from do you have such data?

	A. Litvinenko: I can. During my service in one of the most confidential departments of the FSB, those heads from the UFSB of Dagestan, who directly had worked with Aiman al-Zavahiri, after his successful terrorist preparation and transferring to Afghanistan , were called to Moscow and received high posts. 


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ayman_al-Zawahiri#United_States
	In 1998, al-Zawahiri formally merged the Egyptian Islamic Jihad into al-Qaeda. According to reports by a former al-Qaeda member, he has worked in the al-Qaeda organization since its inception and was a senior member of the group's shura council. He was often described as a "lieutenant" to Osama bin Laden, though bin Laden's chosen biographer has referred to him as the "real brains" of al-Qaeda.


so this guy the "brains" of al-Quaeda? the leader now.

	On February 23, 1998, al-Zawahiri issued a joint fatwa with Osama bin Laden under the title "World Islamic Front Against Jews and Crusaders". Zawahiri, not bin Laden, is thought to have been the actual author of the fatwa.


wants international muslims to fight U.S.

	Bin Laden and Al-Zawahiri organized an al-Qaeda congress on June 24, 1998. A week prior to the beginning of the conference, a group of well-armed assistants to al-Zawahiri had left by jeeps in the direction of Herat. Following the instructions of their patron, in the town of Koh-i-Doshakh they met three unknown Slavic-looking men who had arrived from Russia via Iran. After their arrival in Kandahar, they split up. One of the Russians was directly escorted to al-Zawahiri and he did not participate in the conference. Western military intelligence succeeded in acquiring photographs of him, but he disappeared for six years. According to Axis Globe, in 2004, when Qatar and U.S. investigated Russian embassy officials whom the United Arab Emirates had arrested in connection to the murder of Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev in Qatar, computer software precisely established that a man who had walked to the Russian embassy in Doha was the same one who visited al-Zawahiri prior to the Al-Qaida conference.


what was going on here?

------

http://www.webcitation.org/5rOeSEaw1?url=http://www.axisglobe.com/article.asp?article=252
	The right hand of bin Laden, the Number Two in "Al-Qaeda" was trained at the secret base of the Russian secret services on Caucasus, the former Lieutenant Colonel of the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) Alexander Litvinenko told the Polish Rzeczpospolita newspaper. 


FSB trained al-zawahiri

	...In February 1998, being together in Afghanistan, they have created the World Islamic Front for Jihad Against Jews and Crusaders.


wants muslims to fight "jews" and "crusaders" (the other half of guys like Erik Prince I guess)


	...Although our American and Israeli sources do not know about al-Zawahiri staying in Russia, they have supplied us with some other interesting details.


	Following the instructions of their patron, in the town of Koh-i-Doshakh they met three unknown men that arrived from Russia via Iran. The latter called themselves by Muslim names, despite the fact that the two of them had a clearly Slavic appearance. After their arrival in Kandahar, the 'guests' split up. One of the "Russians" was directly escorted to al-Zawahiri, and he did not participate in the conference.

	Later on, this 'Russian guest', for almost six years disappeared out of the secret services' sight. He reappeared only in 2004. On February, 13, in the capital of Qatar the car of the ex-president of the Chechen Republic Zelimhan Yandarbiev was blown up. Couple of days after his death, the authorities of the United Arab Emirates detained two Russian citizens. They turned to be the officers of the secret services. For the last three months they had been working in the embassy of Russia in Doha. 


So mysterious Russians meet with al-Zawahiri, get arrested for bombing, find out they were Russian spies.

	After Yandarbiev's assassination these two Russians together with several other of their fellow citizens have hastily left Qatar. Having found out all this, investigators have carefully studied video and photo materials made by the counterspies during the last months on a course of supervision over the Russian diplomatic mission. The results were surprising not only for the Qatar's secret services, but also for their Western colleagues. It appeared that at the end of November, 2003, the embassy was visited by the above-mentioned "Russian", who met al-Zawahiri in the summer of 1998 in Kandahar. Although he had changed his appearance, the special computer software precisely established that he was the one, who had met bin Laden's right hand… 


right, the guy who met al-Zawahiri bombed Qatar then get arrested, found out as Russian spy


why does this source seem so sketchy?


https://books.google.com/books?id=TW7GCgAAQBAJ&pg=PA65&lpg=PA65&dq=Yandarbiyev+Al-Zawahiri+Russia&source=bl&ots=bzjpbkIm5S&sig=pCevGRMuyvLaYwurFNPX3IppXI4&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjjwdiX0NDVAhXC64MKHXsgDmMQ6AEISjAG#v=onepage&q=Yandarbiyev%20Al-Zawahiri%20Russia&f=false


This book cites them


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assassination_of_Zelimkhan_Yandarbiyev


AIA "axisglobe.com" said to be mysterious, claims intel links, may or may not be Russian op:

https://books.google.com/books?id=DaNI40r9XfIC&pg=PA107&lpg=PA107&dq=%22Michel+Elbaz%22+axis+globe&source=bl&ots=31W5hEXjOW&sig=1UZnBKmSWFg0MSqaxCagO_WuZdM&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiAqcys0tDVAhWH14MKHSctA9cQ6AEILzAC#v=onepage&q=%22Michel%20Elbaz%22%20axis%20globe&f=false



precursor to XX committee?


interesting:

	So what was AIA really? It was run by a Russian: Mikhail Falkov. ...longstanding owner-editor of IzRus, a prominent Russian-language website there. He is also a former PR adviser to the controversial Israli politician, currently foreign ministr, Avigdor Leiberman, a Soviet-born immigrant whos hard-line approach (towards both Arabs and dovish Israeli officials and fondness for the regime in Russia arrouse considerable controversy.


So basically saying he's a Russian spy

who is Edward Lucas then?


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Lucas_%28journalist%29
	Lucas's book, The New Cold War, was published in 2008. Newsweek asserted that "Lucas has built a very strong case for the prosecution [of Vladimir Putin]. And, on all too many of the counts in his indictment, the defendant looks smugly guilty".[4] The Sunday Telegraph called it the best portrait to date of the mentality of Putin's ruling class.[5]

	The Independent wrote: "His book's urgency is fueled by the belief that, while the Russian bear has been sharpening its claws, the West has slept. Our first mistake, he argues, is ever to have regarded Russia as "normal". Our second has been to take our eyes off the ball, so obsessed with the "war on terror" that we have failed to understand the implications of Kremlin policy and pronouncements, as personified by Vladimir Putin."[6] The book received praise from Vladimir Bukovsky, Mart Laar and Oleg Gordievsky, and criticism from John Laughland and Alexander Zaitchik.[7][8]

	The book's 2009 edition contains more opinions on the Russia-Georgia War of 2008 and Russia's pipeline politics.[9]

	Lucas has condemned whistleblower Edward Snowden, saying "If Snowden had approached me with these documents I would have marched him down to Bow Street police station and asked them to arrest him."[10] Lucas has written an e-book called The Snowden Operation: Inside the West’s Greatest Intelligence Disaster detailing his view that Snowden was working as a Russian spy.[11]


sounds legit


although maybe not


https://twitter.com/edwardlucas/status/895376574459125760


RTs:

https://twitter.com/20committee/status/894990757576232962
 	John Schindler‏Verified account @20committee Aug 8

	John Schindler Retweeted NBC News

	That's just....super.


lolwhat

https://twitter.com/20committee/status/894956973942345728


https://twitter.com/edwardlucas/status/576524827282014208
	Why Hillary’s EmailGate Matters | The XX Committee


if Lucas can be suspicious of AIA but not xx committee, something's not right


Likes to RT Schindler, Bahrara, also Applebaum, McFaul, Natasha Bertrand


https://twitter.com/pussyrrriot/status/889426371780456448


and Pussy Riot? you kidding me?



anyway this their new site?


http://axisglobe.blogspot.com/
	AXIS INFORMATION AND ANALYSIS (AIA) BLOG 


still looks sketchy


dunno what this is for


------


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-russia-bomb-metro-idUSKBN17R24J
	The statement, posted by SITE on Tuesday, said the bomber, Akbarzhon Jalilov, had acted on instructions from al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri, in the April 3 attack on the metro in Russia's second biggest city. 


why?


	"To the Russian government, which apparently has not taken a lesson from its defeat in Afghanistan, we say: This operation is only the beginning, and what is to come will make you forget it, Allah permitting," the statement read, implying there would be even more deadly attacks against Russia in the future. 


------


https://jamestown.org/program/a-russian-agent-at-the-right-hand-of-bin-laden-2/
	But there are few authors who mention that Zawahiri spent half a year in close contact with representatives of Russian intelligence while in their custody.

	Significantly, these contacts led to a change in Zawahiri’s political orientation. Long talks with Russian intelligence officers “forced a critical change in his lethal planning. …America, not Egypt, became the target… Freed from Russian jail in May 1997, Dr. Zawahri found refuge in Afghanistan, yoking his fortunes to Mr. bin Laden. [Zawahiri’s group] Egyptian Jihad, previously devoted to the narrow purpose of toppling secular rule in Egypt, became instead the biggest component of al Qaeda and a major agent of a global war against America. Dr. Zawahri became Mr. bin Laden’s closest confidant and talent scout.”


https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB1025558570331929960

https://cryptome.org/zawahri-wsj.htm

	 DERBENT, Russia -- On a winter night five years ago, Ayman al-Zawahri slipped into Russia across a narrow wedge of land between the Caspian Sea and the Caucasus Mountains. Dr. Zawahri, now America's most wanted man after Osama bin Laden, was on a risky clandestine mission as head of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, a militant group that was scattered, battered and nearly bankrupt after years on the run.

	His purpose: to scope out Chechnya as a possible sanctuary for his wounded cause. Traveling in a minivan with two confederates, he came equipped with $6,400 in cash, a fake identity as a businessman, a laptop computer, a satellite phone, a fax machine and a small library of medical textbooks.

	His plans quickly unraveled. After a night of furtive travel, the Egyptian trio ran into a Russian roadblock on the outskirts of this ancient walled city. Police, seeing they had no visas, handed them over to the Federal Security Service, the post-Soviet version of the KGB. Dr. Zawahri spent the next six months in a crumbling jail, fretting that the Russians would discover his true identity and lock him up for years or send him back to Egypt to face likely execution. 


so what, they recruited him instead?

this when he started working for FSB?


https://www.indymedia.org.uk/en/regions/london/2005/07/318875.html


	...I would like to repeat, that all the terrorists, whom I have named, were supported by the heads of the Soviet and Russian special services - Yury Andropov, Vladimir Putin, Nikolay Patrushev and others. These people are the main terrorists, and their place is not among the heads of the civilized countries, but on a dock. And until we condemn them, the same as in due time they condemned fascist Gestapo, the terrorism on the earth will not stop. 


damn


but Litvienko says Zawahri is an "old agent" of the FSB and was "trained" in Russia in 1998. So was he an agent of theirs before then?


https://cryptome.org/zawahri-wsj.htm
 	In the end, his cover held, and he was freed. Still, Dr. Zawahri's brush with disaster, previously known to only a few Islamist chieftains, forced a critical change in his lethal planning. It also set the stage, ultimately, for Sept. 11 and the global war now under way between America and terrorists under the banner of al Qaeda. Instead of Chechnya, Afghanistan began the locus of his terrorist plotting. And America, not Egypt, became the target. 


so Zawahiri changed plans after his arrest?


 	The Wall Street Journal has pieced together the story of how this happened from interviews with Islamist activists and investigators, court files and documents contained on an al Qaeda computer found in the Afghan capital of Kabul. It illuminates the evolution, motives and also weaknesses of what is today America's principal enemy. 


WSJ claims to have done their homework

	The Sept. 11 cataclysm both masked and flowed from militant Islam's truest feature: disarray and an inability to take and hold power in almost any Islamic country since Iran in 1979.

	Islamists preaching revolution in Egypt and elsewhere were in retreat, not ascendancy. Attacking America, Dr. Zawahri hoped, would reinvigorate and unite their cause. His story shows from the inside how the down-on-his-luck Egyptian Jihad leader came to link up with Osama bin Laden and contribute a critical arsenal of terrorist skills and manpower to the cause. 


Zawahri wanted to start the U.S. "crusader" Muslim "Jihadist" war


	... The Russian investigators and a lawyer who defended the trio were puzzled by a groundswell of support for them from local Islamic organizations. These included groups that had embraced the fundamentalist form of Islam known as Wahhabism and received funding from Saudi Arabia, where the sect emerged two centuries ago. Twenty-six clerics signed an appeal for release of the three "merchants." One local Muslim accused a Russian investigator of doing "the devil's work" by detaining the three.

	A member of Russia's parliament, Nadyr Khachiliev, who had founded a group called the Muslim Union of Russia, wrote to Dagestan's highest court that the three "businessmen" had come to "study the market for food trade" and should be freed. Mr. Khachiliev, a wiry former boxer linked by the police to a string of violent attacks, denies any tie to extremism. Interviewed in his gothic brick mansion in Makhachkala, its outer wall and metal door pock-marked from gunfire, Mr. Khachiliev today says he can't recall any imprisoned Arabs.

	The Russians received a plea from a man claiming to be a director of Bavari-C. "Honesty and decency," he wrote, were the "integral features" of the arrested Arabs' character. Two other men arrived in Dagestan to join the lobbying, claiming to be businessmen affiliated with Bavari-C. In reality, both worked for Egyptian Jihad. They were Ibrahim Eidarous, an activist in Baku and later London, and Tharwat Salah Shehata, a veteran who later became head of Egyptian Jihad.

	Mr. Shehata won permission to visit Dr. Zawahri in jail and was given a coded letter. The Russians copied it but couldn't understand it. After the visit, says a former Russian official, guards found $3,000 hidden in the Arabs' cell.

	Correspondence on the Kabul computer and wiretaps by the Russian police suggest frenetic maneuvering behind the scenes. A person familiar with the Russian investigation says security services overheard telephone discussions of a $10,000 bribe offer by the head of the Dagestan town of Karamakhi, a center of fundamentalist fervor that later was reduced to rubble by Russian troops. One investigator says he suspected the three were terrorist "big fish" en route to Chechnya, but couldn't prove it. 


talking about the campaign to get him released

an alibi?


	..."God blinded them to our identities," Dr. Zawahri wrote later, in his account of his trip. "God's mercy accompanied us during these months." The Russians returned the cash, the communications gear and the computer, its mostly Arabic-language documents nearly all unread. Abulkhalik Abdusalamov, their court-appointed lawyer, says he never got close to his clients and couldn't figure out what they were up to or why they were carrying so much electronic equipment. He says all he knows is that they stiffed him on his $1,800 legal bill, pleading poverty. "There was no honesty in their soul. They cheated me," he says. 


hmmm

	...Dr. Zawahri faced intense questioning by followers who hadn't been told of his Russia journey. One angrily demanded an explanation for his "mysterious disappearance." But instead of the facts, some followers got only a smokescreen, perhaps designed to prevent suspicions of betrayal that might arise from such a quick release from Russian arrest.


Andrew Higgins now:

https://www.nytimes.com/by/andrew-higgins


higgins says Russian propaganda fake news is profit motivated

https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/25/world/europe/fake-news-donald-trump-hillary-clinton-georgia.html?rref=collection%2Fbyline%2Fandrew-higgins&action=click&contentCollection=undefined&region=stream&module=stream_unit&version=latest&contentPlacement=45&pgtype=collection


but at least one of the authors is a convicted Russian spy...


------

https://jamestown.org/program/a-russian-agent-at-the-right-hand-of-bin-laden-2/
	When Zawahiri’s computer was later discovered in Afghanistan by two journalists, it provided insight into Zawahiri’s side of the story. In short, it goes as follows:

	The Russians failed to: 1) find out Zawahiri’s real identity and the goals of his visit to Chechnya; 2) read the Arabic texts in his laptop, which would have revealed the nature of his activities; and 3) read the coded messages that he sent from custody to his friends. 

	Zawahiri’s Version Debunked

	Yet based on my own twenty years’ experience with Russian intelligence people involved in Arab affairs, these claims simply do not ring true. The Soviet KGB had good–albeit indirect–connections with Islamic fundamentalists, including the Muslim Brotherhood and the Egyptian Jihad. The curriculum of Arab terrorists who studied at Moscow International’s Lenin School placed special emphasis on cooperation between Marxists and Islamists. Soviet instructors would encourage Arab terrorists to consider the Muslim Brothers and other Islamic extremists as “allies in class struggle.”

	Good contacts between the KGB and Islamic fundamentalists existed at the time of the Egyptian Jihad’s 1981 assassination of Anwar Sadat, after which Zawahiri was jailed by Egyptian authorities. Since the KGB followed these events very closely and may have even been indirectly involved in the plot, the KGB would have put Zawahiri’s name into its records at that time. Therefore, when Zawahiri crossed the KGB’s path again, that organization likely would have soon discovered his real identity. 


right, their story doesn't add up

	...It would have been logical, therefore, for the Russians to try to persuade Zawahiri to cooperate with them in directing the activities of Arabs in Chechnya, in getting information about the plans and activities of Chechen leaders, and in influencing the Chechen leadership.

	It may not have been too difficult for Russian officers to persuade Zawahiri to go along with such a plan. The prisoner would have been very frightened by the prospect of being deported to Egypt or remaining jailed in Russia. Furthermore, methods of torture during interrogation used by KGB officers would have truly almost scared Zawahiri to death. Execution very likely was just one threat. 


saying he was recruited there?


	...It is notable that Taliban and al Qaeda militants in Afghanistan received regular re-supplies of Russian arms. The man responsible for these deliveries was Victor Anatolievich Bout, the son of a top KGB officer. His father’s connections helped establish Bout in the arms trade, which is linked to the Russian government and particularly to its intelligence services. Bout and his family currently reside in the United Arab Emirates. [3] 


Another link between KGB and Taliban, reported 2004

	...It is also not difficult to imagine that the Russians managed to get some information from Zawahiri about his colleagues that could have been used to blackmail him if he tried to avoid cooperation after his release. With an agreement reached between Zawahiri and the Russians, the authorities would have taken steps to make the Egyptian look “clean” to his Arab comrades and the Chechens. It would not have been difficult for them to stage Zawahiri’s trial, at which the judge gave him only a six months’ sentence, much of which he had already served. 


saying that could blackmail him

could blackmail with suspicion of being a Russian agent too? especially after his trial

	...Thus left alone, the Arabs exercise significant influence over the activities of Chechen commanders according to orders from Zawahiri. Presumably they do so without understanding that they could well be the Trojan horses who actually execute the Kremlin’s orders. For example, the Arabs apparently do not encourage Chechen militants to direct any attacks against Russian leaders in Moscow. This could be accomplished simply by refusing to pay for such operations.

	In contrast, the Arabs do seem to encourage the taking of hostages from among the common people, as in the Moscow youth club Nord-Ost incident, thus making it easier for the Kremlin to stoke public anger against “Chechen terrorists.” This in turn helps Vladimir Putin garner popular support for his own authoritarian actions as well as those of his former KGB colleagues who now occupy 65 percent of top governmental positions. Dr. Zawahiri may thus be the queen in the Kremlin’s chess game not only in Chechnya, but also in Russia’s power struggle at the highest levels. If so, it is not likely that the Russians would surrender him merely to help win the global war on terror.


terrorist don't attack Russian leaders, just people


https://jamestown.org/analyst/evgenii-novikov/


Author defected to U.S.

------

https://www.thenewamerican.com/world-news/europe/item/15162-defector-putin-s-kgb-trained-top-al-qaeda-terrorists

	Mr. Litvinenko's brief revelation in Rzeczpospolita provides confirmation for suspicions many counterterrorism analysts have held concerning al-Zawahiri, whom federal authorities have called the "mastermind of 9/11."


so, Putin did 9/11


	As reported in The New American in 2001, al-Zawahiri had been very active as the purported top leader of Islamist terrorist operations in Bosnia-Herzegovina during Yugoslavia's civil war. Throughout that period, he operated from a special headquarters in Sofia, the capital of Communist-run Bulgaria, which had been for decades a primary surrogate for Soviet training and sponsorship of terrorism. It was apparent that the Russians were playing both sides in the conflict, openly supporting the Serbs and covertly helping the Iranian-backed Muslims.


Zawahiri involved with Russian intel in Yugoslavia? another instance of Russia playing both sides


something off with this article?

by "Staff of The New American"

new american seems sketchy


------

http://www.ronpaulforums.com/showthread.php?299652-KGB-trained-Ayman-al-Zawahiri-New-Leader-of-al-Qaeda


heh, what is this doing here? cites New American article

------

http://www.jrnyquist.com/nyquist_2005_0813.htm
	In a July 2002 article titled Ayman al-Zawahiri's Russian Adventure, I offered the following analysis: "Given Zawahiri's travels to Russia and China, given the full context of Russia's double game in Chechnya (described in last week’s column), we ought to entertain the possibility that China and Russia secretly supported the terrorists who attacked America on 9/11." 


hmmm


try to blame it on China too?


------


https://www.spectator.co.uk/2011/06/moscows-jihadi/
	Pavel Stroilov

	We know he’s a former ‘emir’ of the Egyptian Islamic Jihad who spent three years in an Egyptian prison after his group assassinated the pro-western President Anwar Sadat.

	...Corroborating evidence comes from the files smuggled out of Russia by the former KGB archivist Vasili Mitrokhin. In his book with the intelligence historian Christopher Andrew, Mitrokhin suggests Soviet involvement in the assassination of Sadat. They say groundwork for the assassination was laid by the Syrian special services and Palestinian terrorists, with the KGB’s knowledge and at least tacit approval.

so soviets wanted Sadat assassinated, which al-Zawahiri carried out?


also by Stoilov:


https://www.spectator.co.uk/2013/04/the-iron-lady-and-the-iron-curtain/
	Exclusive: the Kremlin's secret Margaret Thatcher files
	Soviet files reveal Margaret Thatcher to have been tougher with Gorbachev behind closed doors


dunno about him, but spectator seems like a rag


sword and sheild pg 596:

	...The fact that the [Nobel Peace] prize went instead to Anwar Sadat .. was claimed by the Centre as a major triumph

huh?


https://www.upi.com/Archives/1981/10/17/Former-Soviet-KGB-Agent-Sadat-Assassination-Triumph-for-Soviet-Policy/1527372139200/
	Vladimir Sakharov thinks the KGB probably did not directly assassinate Anwar Sadat, but established the atmosphere that provoked others to kill the Egyptian leader, scoring a victory for Soviet policy.

	Sakharov has grounds for his suspicion of the Russian secret service.

	He used to be one of its agents in Egypt.

	'The Soviet Union created the background for this and they should be held responsible,' Sakharov said in an interview.

	'They probably did not do this directly, but they created a fertile ground for this sort of thing, creating a vicious hatred of Sadat by Arabs inside and outside Egypt, through propaganda on Moscow radio, Tass, Pravda, many publications or broadcasting stations they support.

	'The primary thrust of Soviet policy in that area for years has been to undermine Sadat and the Camp David agreements.

	'There was also a personal element involved. Sadat hurt the Soviets twice, ordering Soviet experts out of the country. They always hated him for that.

	'This assassination is most definitely a step forward for Soviet policy.'

	Sakharov was once one of the instruments of that policy, until he became a double agent for the CIA and defected to the United States 10 years ago. Now 36, he lived under an assumed identity until he surfaced this summer.


says soviets wanted assassination of Sadat

	...Even after Sadat's repeated attempts to oust the Soviets and root out their influence, 'Sadat could never have removed the whole KGB network,' Sakharov said.

	'One of the KGB's foremost abilities is to develop a network of sleepers under deep cover in any given country. It is a historical capability. The roots of the KGB are in the Second World War, running partisan forces behind German lines.

	'The KGB has been able to maintain vast networks of operatives in countries the Soviets lost -- Iran is one of the best examples. The KGB had a vast network of operatives in Iran while it was under the shah.

	'The same thing was true in Egypt. Just because the Soviet diplomats were told to leave, do not think the KGB pulled out. They can still 'push the button' and cause strikes, disturbances, and other trouble through their operatives.


sounds right, sleepers in Germany, Iran, Egypt


	...A key element of the plan was to keep tensions high so that Arab resentment of Israel would work against the United States and the need for military help would provide openings for Russian influence.


still doing this today

	...'I went through the Soviet and then the American educational systems for diplomats, and it astounded me to see that the U.S. system leaves its diplomats and analysts totally unprepared to deal with the realities of the world.'


sounds right


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP90-00552R000303410001-1.pdf

this says Sakarov got the "cold shoulder"... why is that?


McMahon did testify that the KGB created forgeries saying U.S. planned on "repudiating" and "getting rid of" Sadat

KGB blamed the CIA for plotting to assassinate Sadat

------

http://www.meforum.org/973/the-world-was-going-our-way
	The World Was Going Our Way
	The KGB and the Battle for the Third World

	by Christopher Andrew and Vasili Mitrokhin

	Reviewed by Barry Rubin

	...Sadat so infuriated KGB officials, some advocated his assassination. Moscow was never directly involved in such an effort but knew its contacts in Syrian intelligence and the Palestine Liberation Organization were, though Islamists beat them to it in 1981.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barry_Rubin
	He was the editor of the GLORIA center website. He was also the Middle East editor and a columnist at PJMedia.[2] His last book, entitled Silent Revolution (2014), describes how the Left rose to political power and cultural dominance in the USA during the recent years.


https://pjmedia.com/barryrubin/2013/2/22/why-the-cia-director-is-wrong-rethinking-al-qaida/

https://pjmedia.com/barryrubin/2014/1/8/you-still-dont-understand-islamism-do-you
	You Still Don’t Understand Islamism, Do You?

	By Barry Rubin January 8, 2014

	Around 2007, I gave a lecture at the Defense Department. One of the attendees presented a scenario suggesting that the “problem of Islam” was not political but a problem of verbiage.

	There was a secret debate happening in the Defense Department and the CIA in which some people thought that all Muslims were a problem, some believed that only al-Qaeida was a problem, and still others thought the Muslim Brotherhood was a problem.

	The main problem, however, was that all Islamism was a political threat, but it was the second position that eventually won over the Obama administration. 


sounds like KGB assassinated Sadat

------


https://clarionproject.org/soviet-jihad-connection-interview-pavel-stroilov/
	 Socialist Egypt was an ally of the Soviet Union for longer than is generally thought. As the archival documents show, Egyptian President Anwar Sadat maintained a secret relationship with Moscow for a number of years in the earlier period of his rule before switching sides. For that, he was killed and his successor, Hosni Mubarak, then restored the secret relations with Moscow.

	It is very likely that the KGB was involved in the assassination of Sadat and it should be inferred that they had a close relationship with the Muslim Brotherhood’s splinter group that did it. We still do not know how direct the relationship was—it may have been through the Syrians and/or Palestinians. According to the archive taken by KGB defector Vasili Mitrokhin, it was immediately after Sadat made peace with Israel that the Syrian secret service and the National Front for the Liberation of Palestine began preparing his assassination with Moscow’s knowledge and at least, tacit approval.


by "clarion project -- challenging radical islam and promoting human rights"

but claims Sadat close to moscow, then made peace with Israel, then KGB decided they wanted to assassinate him

dunno where that is in Mitrokhin archives


here:

https://books.google.com/books?id=PRfdDQAAQBAJ&pg=PA531&lpg=PA531&dq=Anwar+Sadat+MItrokhin&source=bl&ots=LM3JyENnD8&sig=sAVKrITK64bNDfVO1YdI3jPF2Kc&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiS547LmdHVAhVJMSYKHQFgD8oQ6AEINDAB#v=onepage&q=Sadat&f=false
	The World Was Going Our Way: The KGB and the Battle for the the Third World ...
	By Christopher Andrew, Vasili Mitrokhin

	The Center had grandiose plans for the formation of an 'anti-Sadat front', based on the NPUP, which, it believed, would organize popular opposition to his 'pro-imperialist' policies. Its plans, however, achieved nothing of significance. Despite tactical succeses, the NPUP was incapable of mobilizing mass support. At the elections to the People's Assembly in 1983 it gained only 4 per cent of the vote.

	Probably no other Third World leader inspired as much loathing in Moscow as Sadat. While stationed at the Centre at the end of the 1970s, Oleg Gordievsky heard a number of outraged KGB officers say that he should be bumped off. Though there is no evidence that the Centre was ever implicated in such a plot, it was aware that some of its contacts were. In December 1977 it received information that a secret meeting in Damascus between leaders of Syrian intelligence and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine had discussed plans for assassinating both Sadat and Ashraf Marwan. On 6 October 1981, the anniversary of the outbreak of the Yom Kippur War, Sadat was assassinated by fundamentalist fanatics while reviewing a military parade. Though there is no indication in files noted by Mitrokhin that the KGB had advance warning of the assassination plot, the news that it had succeeded was greeted with jubilation in the Centre - and doubtless in the Kremlin.

------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anwar_Sadat
	Over three hundred Islamic radicals were indicted in the trial of assassin Khalid Islambouli, including future al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri, Omar Abdel-Rahman and Abd al-Hamid Kishk. The trial was covered by the international press and Zawahiri's knowledge of English made him the de facto spokesman for the defendants. Zawahiri was released from prison in 1984. 


------

http://www.nbcnews.com/id/43640995/ns/world_news-mideast_n_africa/t/sadats-assassination-plotter-remains-unrepentant/
	Egyptian authorities, however, believed Zomor was one of the plot’s top masterminds. He was sentenced to life in prison. But Zomor was released as part of an ongoing amnesty program after the revolution in Cairo’s Tahrir Square earlier this year overthrew President Mubarak.


interesting--was Zomor a Russian agent?


	...Egyptian authorities, however, believed Zomor was one of the plot’s top masterminds. He was sentenced to life in prison. But Zomor was released as part of an ongoing amnesty program after the revolution in Cairo’s Tahrir Square earlier this year overthrew President Mubarak.


Zomor said to mastermind assassination plot of Sadat


	...Zomor was one of the founders of the Islamic Jihad group, along with Egyptian physician Ayman al-Zawahiri. Zawahiri was also imprisoned in connection with Sadat’s assassination, but was released after he won an appeal.

	Zawahiri: ‘a good personality’

	Zawahiri took command of the Islamic Jihad group after he was released from prison – replacing Zomor was Zawahiri’s first big promotion in the world of jihad. Zawahiri recently got another promotion – he took over the leadership of al-Qaida after the CIA and U.S. special operations commandos killed Osama bin Laden in Pakistan. 

	“I lived with [Zawahiri] for three years in prison. He’s a rare personality and a good personality,” Zomor said.  


So Zomor and Zawahiri sound close, Zawahiri succeeded him, also involved in plot

how exactly?

	...“There are differences. Bin Laden is leaning toward the humanitarian side, the emotional side, and the religious side, not the organization... Ayman al Zawahiri is more organized and a leader. He leads organizations, not just one. He has big abilities. I know him closely and I lived with him three years in prison and he helped me in a number of ways, with negotiations with the administration, solving internal problems, and dealing with trials in my absence.  He took over some of the leading roles that I left to him,” Zomor said.


Zomor says Zawahiri is a "leader" and "organized" with "big abilities," helping Zomor with negotations and administration.

	“The decision [to kill Sadat] was based on a number of factors together. The first issue was the issue of sharia [Islamic law], that he was standing against sharia, against its implementation and application. This was the primary reason that this regime must be removed. The second issue was that [Sadat] broke into the people’s rights with the idea of tyranny. He dissolved the people’s assembly [parliament] that had a few opposition figures – not more than could be counted on the fingers of one hand – he removed them because they opposed the peace agreement and it’s everyone’s right to have a point of view... But he was a tyrant, and he dissolved and he cheated and he made his party the one in control and running everything. The third issue is that Egypt reached such levels of tyranny that he attacked the Islamic movements. We were confronted aggressively,” Zomor said.

	Listening to Zomor it sounded like the peace deal with Israel was merely the final straw. First Sadat opposed Islamic law, Sharia, then made peace with Israel and finally arrested Islamic activists. Zomor said it was the cumulative effect of these actions that drove the plotters to assassinate Sadat.


Zomor a bit shaky on reasons for assassinating Sadat

says he was tyrant, didn't do Sharia law, made peace with Israel, then attacked Islamic movements

says he wanted to use assassination to spark islamic revolution


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abbud_al-Zumar
	On 8 January 2011 Abbud al-Zumar stated in an interview with Shorouk News that: "Sadats assassination happened against our plans, our plans was to make a revolution in civil way without blood but Sadat arrested every one in September 1981 so we had to move quickly and kill him, when they suggested to kill Sadat I refused and suggested to attack prison to free the political prisoners with a plan to change Sadat without blood in 1984, but they refused so I had to listen to the majority and we killed Sadat."

Zomor covering his ass or felt pressured to assassinate Sadat

------

http://www.bbc.com/news/world-middle-east-13789286
	During the mass trial, Zawahiri emerged as a leader of the defendants and was filmed telling the court: "We are Muslims who believe in our religion. We are trying to establish an Islamic state and Islamic society."

	Although he was cleared of involvement in Sadat's assassination, Zawahiri was convicted of the illegal possession of arms, and served a three-year sentence. 


Zawahiri cleared of involvement in Egypt trial, but said to be "involved" somehow anyway

how was he involved?


	In 1997, Zawahiri is believed to have moved to the Afghan city of Jalalabad, where Osama Bin Laden was based.

	A year later, Egyptian Islamic Jihad joined five other radical Islamist militant groups, including Bin Laden's al-Qaeda, in forming the World Islamic Front for Jihad against Jews and Crusaders.

	The front's first proclamation included a fatwa, or religious edict, permitting the killing of US civilians. Six months later, two simultaneous attacks destroyed the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, killing 223 people.

	Zawahiri was one of the figures whose satellite telephone conversations were used as proof that Bin Laden and al-Qaeda were behind the plot.

	Two weeks after the attacks, the US bombed the group's training camps in Afghanistan. The next day, Zawahiri telephoned a Pakistani journalist and said:

	"Tell America that its bombings, its threats, and its acts of aggression do not frighten us. The war has only just begun."


more on involvement in 9/11


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ayman_al-Zawahiri
	In his book, Al-Zawahiri as I Knew Him, Al-Zayat maintains that under torture by the Egyptian police, following his arrest in connection with the murder of Sadat in 1981, Al-Zawahiri revealed the hiding place of Essam al-Qamari, a key member of the Maadi cell of al-Jihad, which led to Al-Qamari's "arrest and eventual execution."


Zawahiri "cooperating" with Egyptian police?

	...It failed, as did an attempt to assassinate Egyptian prime minister Atef Sidqi three months later. The bombing of Sidqi's car injured 21 Egyptians and killed a schoolgirl, Shayma Abdel-Halim. It followed two years of killings by another Islamist group, al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya, that had killed over 200 people. Her funeral became a public spectacle, with her coffin carried through the streets of Cairo and crowds shouting, "Terrorism is the enemy of God!"[45] The police arrested 280 more of al-Jihad's members and executed six.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Essam_al-Qamari
	When Ayman al-Zawahiri was arrested, he was immediately asked the whereabouts of al-Qamari and told them he was staying at the Gamaliyya turnery. Since they had spoken earlier in the day about meeting at the Kit Kat Mosque, Zawahiri agreed to meet as scheduled and allow the Egyptians to arrest al-Qamari when he entered. He was arrested while performing the Nafl salat.


sounds like it
