
http://thehill.com/blogs/pundits-blog/national-party-news/345730-opinion-mike-pences-2020-run-will-go-down-in-flames?amp
	OPINION | Mike Pence's 2020 run will go down in flames with Trump's presidency 

	By Cheri Jacobus


	Pence issued a statement of denial, or at least about 80 percent a denial (yes, Pence left some wiggle room, calling the suggestion he's running "laughable and absurd" rather than saying outright he is not running for president in 2020). But it's clear to even the casual observer or college freshman poli-sci major that Pence is readying for a run for the 2020 GOP nomination. 

	...While Pence sold his soul to be the right-hand guy to the worst president in history with approval ratings in the sewer, other potential GOP 2020 primary candidates such as Gov. John Kasich (Ohio), Sens Tom Cotton (Ark.) and Ben Sasse (Neb.) have the luxury of being unburdened by forced loyalty to an unprincipled demagogue they appropriately and rightly wrote off. 

	...Trump's ambassador to the United Nations, former South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley also is well-positioned for 2020, and has carved out a niche of independence that distances her from Trump, thus placing her in that Kasich/Sasse category. 


Suggests Kasich, Cotton, Sasse, Haley instead


	Expect Trump's vice-president, hand-picked by Trump's former top aide, Paul Manafort, who is at the center of the Trump/Russia probe, to attempt to paint himself as a na ve waif on any and all Trump team Russia collusion.

	Pence clearly understands the trouble he's in after the New York Times piece. His press statement - the mere fact of it - served as a bit of a sad reminder of the heavy price everyone who attaches themselves to Trump eventually pays. The other potential candidates named didn't need such a press statement. 


reaching a bit?


	Pence will be the lonely boy peering through the fence watching the other children play and thrive, as Kasich and the others trek to Iowa and New Hampshire, freely offering public critiques of the disaster in the White House, while Trump's vice president (who fought for the job after Trump reportedly had already offered it to now-discarded Chris Christie) is tethered to Trump as his VP. That is, at least, until Trump gives him the Spicer/Preibus/Scaramucci/Christie/Romney treatment, with a large dose of humiliation to wash down the rejection.


sounds bitter


------

http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2017/jan/11/trump-prevails-defamation-suit-brought-cheri-jacob/
	Republican consultant Cheri Jacobus can’t sue President-elect Donald Trump for remarks he made about her on Twitter, a New York Supreme Court judge ruled this week, citing “heated rhetoric” during a “particularly raucous” White House race in formally dismissing her defamation suit Tuesday.


interesting--why do this?


infowars says nothing on Jacobus

------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/erik-wemple/wp/2016/07/13/just-why-did-cnn-stop-inviting-this-trump-critic-on-air/
	Just why did CNN stop inviting this Trump critic on air?
	By Erik Wemple

	The next day, Lewandowski denounced Jacobus in an interview on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.” “This is the same person, I’ll just tell ya, who came to the office on multiple occasions trying to get a job from the Trump campaign, and when she wasn’t hired she went off and was upset by that,” said Lewandowski.


this true?


	Facing off with pro-Trump commentator Kayleigh McEnany, Jacobus riffed: “Look, Donald Trump also had a super PAC that he started out with, and he lied about it, and they had to quickly shut it down. He got $100,000 from his daughter’s in-laws for that super PAC and he attended two fundraisers for that super PAC. And also another reason he shut it down is when he went to the three big billionaire donors . . . they turned him down. . . . So this business about bragging that he’s self-funding is only because he went to the traditional Republican money, and they didn’t want him.”


	...What happened here? Who knows: CNN won’t comment on the whole deal. We asked for an interview about the matter, and a CNN rep offered an off-the-record chat with a news executive. We declined.


CNN stopped brining her on

	...That message about Jacobus’s alleged credibility problems apparently got through to CNN managers. “She became ‘damaged goods,’ persona non grata, demoted from a network regular . . . to complete oblivion, with almost no television appearances whatsoever,” reads a passage from the April 18 defamation complaint that Jacobus and her lawyer, Jay Butterman, filed against Trump, Lewandowski and the Trump campaign. The complaint also alleges that Jacobus’s appearances on Fox News and Fox Business News Network dried up, though the situation with those outlets is murkier than with CNN. (A Fox News spokeswoman says that Jacobus has been on air as recently as March.)


Interesting
