
https://muckrack.com/chris-stephen


------


http://www.scotsman.com/news/chris-stephen-as-secretary-of-state-hillary-clinton-will-have-minimal-input-into-american-foreign-policy-1-1150040
	Chris Stephen: As secretary of state, Hillary Clinton will have minimal input into American foreign policy

	It was only in March, during the Democrats' acrimonious primary battle, that Mr Obama mockingly questioned Mrs Clinton's qualifications as a former first lady for dealing with America's friends and enemies abroad: "What exactly is this foreign policy experience? Was she negotiating treaties? Was she handling crises? The answer is no."

	Once the Obama presidency begins, real power will be held and closely guarded by a far more experienced White House team that the president will use to formulate policy, leaving Mrs Clinton as little more than the smile on a new, more friendly approach to the outside world.

	But Mrs Clinton has the chance, even in such restricted circumstances, to shine, not least if she can prove herself a smooth negotiator amid the galaxy of problems facing the US abroad.


claims Clinton would be just a figurehead? what is he doing, trying to allay fears?

	...Shunting her off to the state department is seen as a way of getting her out of harm's way: had she been excluded from any job in the administration, she would have remained in the Senate, possibly to craft a bid to run again for president in 2016 or even, if Mr Obama becomes unpopular, in 2012.


"getting her out of harm's way"

	Meanwhile, the president-elect already has a surfeit of foreign policy advisers that he trusts: Susan Rice, who once worked in the Bill Clinton administration, is his guru, providing solid academic expertise.


Susan rice a Russian spy


sounds like he's trying to rationalize the decision to appoint Clinton SoS, which was controversial and obviously bad from the start


	...Finding an international consensus to curb Iran's nuclear ambitions is an obvious place for her to make her mark, if she proves herself able to handle protracted negotiations with Russia, the European Union and Iran itself.


interesting he mentions this

	...And any kind of settlement in the Middle East would offer the possibility of the Nobel Peace Prize, some consolation, at least, for having failed to win the prize she had really set her heart on: the presidency of the United States.


why is he writing like this? article is wierd


	...Mr Clinton's extended web of business and philanthropic activities raised questions about how he could continue to travel the world soliciting multimillion-dollar contributions for his foundation and six-figure speaking fees for himself from foreign organisations and individuals while his wife conducted US foreign policy. 


calling it ahead of time


------

went on to cover Benghazi?

https://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/sep/09/us-consulate-benghazi-attack-challenge
	But what is perhaps most striking is the inconsistencies: the US version of events compared with those of witnesses and the facts on the ground. The two do not tally. And so, a year later, there remain pressing questions about what happened that night – and what the Americans say happened.


goes on to poke giant holes in the U.S. account of the events

(was it Susan Rice who gave those?)

	Congressional committees continue to grind through the evidence and excise all mention of the CIA.
