http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/low-key-fbi-director-pick-lead-agency-tumult/
	Wray’s confirmation hearing Wednesday before the Senate Judiciary Committee may dive into his legal background but will almost certainly focus on the political maelstrom surrounding the nomination, with Democrats and perhaps some Republicans seeking assurances of his independence from President Donald Trump.


who is Christopher Wray? all I know is that I don't trust him

	Lawyers and FBI agents who have worked with Wray don’t expect that to be a problem, describing him as calm, methodical and even-handed. He has deep experience in Washington, serving as the top criminal lawyer in the Bush administration and working closely not only with Comey but also Robert Mueller, the former FBI director who’s now serving as special counsel in charge of the Russia investigation.


that's bad

	...Wray has spent the last decade in private practice at King & Spalding in Atlanta, where he’s defended large corporations and financial institutions in criminal and civil cases. Most notably, he was personal lawyer to New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie in an investigation into the closing of the George Washington Bridge.


------


http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/who-christopher-wray-trump-s-choice-fbi-director-was-once-n769366
	 Wray has previously come under Senate scrutiny

	In October 2003, Wray was called to testify on Capitol Hill during an investigation into who leaked the identity of CIA operative Valerie Plame.

	The scandal ensnared journalists and government officials, including members of then-President George W. Bush's staff.

	Wray, who oversaw the probe as head of the DOJ's criminal division, admitted to regularly briefing Attorney General John Ashcroft on key details of the investigation. Democrats at the time argued that Ashcroft's close ties with the White House could undermine the ongoing inquiry since he hadn't recused himself from the case.

	But Wray, during his testimony, was quick to defend himself, too: "I can assure you that it has been made painfully clear to everyone involved that no punches are to be pulled in this investigation and that anybody who thinks that we are going to be pulling any punches in this investigation doesn't know the lawyers and the agents working on this investigation very well." 
