http://meanlefthook.com/2017/05/trump-may-given-james-comeys-fbi-computer-russians/

Mench's site saying Comey's compute got hacked by Trump and something was given to the Russians.

Why? who knows... trying to paint Comey as comromised? good luck with that using just conspiracy theories like this.

Better to look at Comey's actions, like basically helping Trump win...

why would he base his decision to go public about the Clinton case on a peice of Russian propaganda? he could have gone public about that too

real problem is he didn't tell Congress he knew it was Russian propaganda--why leave that out? hiding soething?


------

http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/26/politics/james-comey-fbi-investigation-fake-russian-intelligence/

	Then-FBI Director James Comey knew that a critical piece of information relating to the investigation into Hillary Clinton's email was fake -- created by Russian intelligence -- but he feared that if it became public it would undermine the probe and the Justice Department itself, according to multiple officials with knowledge of the process.

	As a result, Comey acted unilaterally last summer to publicly declare the investigation over -- without consulting then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch -- while at the same time stating that Clinton had been "extremely careless" in her handling of classified information. His press conference caused a firestorm of controversy and drew criticism from both Democrats and Republicans. 

So this is interesting, if Comey is a spy for Russia, they can create excuses for him to act in their interest. This email and the fear of what would happen if it were released could create one such excuse.


-----

http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/19/politics/james-comey-trump-influence/

Why didn't Comey alert Congress of the attempt to influence him?

Comey "memorialized everything"

According to sources: at that point, thought he was dealing with an incompetent admin who didn't know how to deal with these legal issues, Comey thought he could "teach" Trump. After Comey was fired, question of intent became "more problematic.


According to sources: Comey didn't flag because he wasn't clear that he was being influenced at first, and knew that it would be leaked as well.

Opining Comey didn't "smell obstruction" at that point


Saying Comey leaking this to his friends


sounds like Comey using his friends to speak for him to be fall-guys, give him an alibi

probably just making all this up?

idea would be to distract from Yates firing


Who is lady in the video saying what "sources" tell her?

Gloria Borger (ties with Huntsman, who is probably a spy)

article also by Gloria Borger

http://talkingpointsmemo.com/livewire/graham-stunning-comey-fake-intelligence-russia-clinton-emails
	“I can’t imagine a scenario where it’s OK for the FBI director to jump in the middle of an election based on a fake email generated by the Russians and not tell the Congress,” Graham said Sunday on CNN’s “State of the Union.”

right?

	In classified sessions with members of Congress several months ago, Comey described those emails in the Russian claim and expressed his concern that this Russian information could "drop" and that would undermine the Clinton investigation and the Justice Department in general, according to one government official.
	
	Still, Comey did not let on to lawmakers that there were doubts about the veracity of the intelligence, according to sources familiar with the briefings. It is unclear why Comey was not more forthcoming in a classified setting.

So Comey explained how the Russian email could "drop," but not that there were doubts about the veracity of the intelligence (which iirc came from Steele).

	Sources close to Comey tell CNN he felt that it didn't matter if the information was accurate, because his big fear was that if the Russians released the information publicly, there would be no way for law enforcement and intelligence officials to discredit it without burning intelligence sources and methods. There were other factors behind Comey's decision, sources say. 

A lame excuse. And still, why not tell them?

	In at least one classified session, Comey cited that intelligence as the primary reason he took the unusual step of publicly announcing the end of the Clinton email probe.

"primary reason"

why not even mention the reason he gave under sworn testimony? did he lie under oath?

So article is by Gloria Burger, but other people too, so can still be legit, and the facts reported legit regardless unless they want to outright lie (putting themselves at risk)


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/09/comey-timeline-everything-that-led-up-to-his-firing/?utm_term=.a7082549ad3c

Comey timeline

Seems like May 2 Trump had a heads-up Comey would be questioned on the Clinton handling?

	May 4 — Comey briefs members of the House Intelligence Committee behind closed doors about the Russia probe, now being led by Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-Tex.).

	May 8 — ProPublica publishes a report stating that Comey exaggerated the number of emails Abedin forwarded to Weiner. In a news conference later in the week, White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Trump met with Sessions and Rosenstein in the Oval Office to discuss his concerns about Comey.

	May 9 — FBI sends a letter to the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee clarifying that Comey misspoke about the number of emails forwarded.

So that's how it went down... after a ProPublica report?

Then the FBI ammends his testimony, then fired a few hours later

could be they fired him to put him in the spotlight as well as distract from Yates, since this came a day after Yates' hearing

I love timelines!

Aren't timelines great?

-----

http://www.smh.com.au/federal-politics/political-news/afp-boss-andrew-colvin-defends-sacked-fbi-director-james-comey-as-a-man-of-incredible-integrity-20170531-gwh8hg.html

claims Comey a "man of integrity"--how is he sure?

------

http://www.sgvtribune.com/government-and-politics/20170527/heres-what-congress-should-ask-fired-fbi-director-james-comey-about-the-russia-probe

Questions to ask Comey at upcoming hearing

------

http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2017/05/25/james-comey-heroic-or-facing-indictment.html

accusing Comey of keeping the memo for his own "self-interest"

maybe a different motive...


------

http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/17/politics/james-comey-leaks/
	One story was based on emails leaked to the Times shows that Comey had written to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales in 2005, arguing that the torture tactics were a bad idea and that Gonzales and other Justice officials would regret being pushed by the White House to approve them.

	At the time the stories were published, Obama Justice Department officials marveled at the fortuitous timing of someone close to Comey coming to rescue of his larger-than-life, good guy reputation. 

yeah, who came out of nowhere to save him?


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2017/05/17/the-guy-who-predicted-comeys-memos-thinks-comey-may-be-trying-to-take-down-president-trump/?utm_term=.aa197a9601d6
	I keep wondering — something in the back of my head keeps saying to me — maybe Comey was actually trying to build an obstruction-of-justice case against the president here. You know what I mean? Because Comey could handle this one of two ways: The president makes this request, and the first time Comey might say to him, ‘You know, Mr. President, it’s inappropriate for us to have this conversation, and I would appreciate if you would not make a request like this to me again.’ That’s a way to handle it that says very clearly to the president that this should never be repeated.

	But if you’re trying to build an obstruction-of-justice case, you might want the president to keep talking, because everything he does is digging a deeper legal hole for himself.

Saying Comey acting like an FBI agent in interactions with Trump, trying to get him to trip up

	You look at the Ashcroft bedside incident where that unfolded in one of the most dramatic congressional hearings in history. And it was pretty clear at the time that that hearing had been pretty well planned by Comey and by Preet Bharara — to uncover real wrongdoing by the Bush administration — but also to present Comey in a very favorable light.

What's up with Bharara? what is his relationship with Comey? Bharara lead the prosecution of the 10 illegals, but it seems like he is a spy...


------

http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/17/politics/comey-trump-oval-office-responses/

Claims Comey tried to make his notes as accurate as possible


-------

Comey news on Oct 26:

http://ijr.com/opinion/2016/10/261404-comey-fbi-clinton-no-choice/
	Having arrested guys like Mr. Abedin-Weiner, I can tell you that prison terrifies them more than women over 25. 

lol

This is clearly from 27th or later

IJR is Russian propaganda, defending Comey here

Kindof?

Actually on Oct 26:

http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/oct/26/bill-oreilly-shreds-james-comey-fbi-after-smoking-/
	Fox News’ Bill O'Reilly blasted FBI Director James B. Comey Tuesday night after “damning” WikiLeaks documents revealed Hillary Clinton’s inner circle reacting to her secret email server scandal.

	Stolen documents belonging to campaign chairman John Podesta show Mrs. Clinton’s former chief of staff, Cheryl Mills, telling staffers in March 2015 to “clean this up” pertaining to the scandal. Mr. O'Reilly said that email, coupled with another by adviser Neera Tanden saying Mrs. Clinton’s team “wanted to get away with it,” constitutes proof of criminality ignored by the FBI.

	“There’s your smoking gun,” Mr. O'Reilly said, Mediaite reported Tuesday. “Why didn’t the director of the FBI tell the American people about that email? Why? The campaign itself, the Hillary Clinton machine itself, is admitting this is bad and they’ve got to do something, and Comey doesn’t think it has anything to do with the investigation? […] Comey didn’t mention it! He’s the FBI director! No politics! He’s the investigator. He didn’t blanking mention it. That is so damning!”


Comey news on Oct 27:


------

https://www.intelligence.senate.gov/sites/default/files/documents/os-jcomey-060817.pdf

Comey says he wanted to alert Trump of the dossier because he didn't want Trump to think his conduct was subject to a counter-intel investigation?

	To the  extent there was some effort to compromise an incoming President

So there was an effort to compromise Trump?

	The FBI uses that understanding to disrupt those efforts.  Sometimes disruption takes the form of alerting a person who is targetedfor recruitment or influence by the foreign power.


So Comey implying he thinks Russia was trying to blackmail Trump, and apparently that come up in his convo with him

	A few moments later, the Presidentsaid, “I need loyalty,I expect loyalty.”I didn’t move, speak, or change my facial expression in any way during theawkward silence that followed.  We simply looked at each other in silence.  The conversation then moved on, but he returned to the subject near the end of our dinner.  

Could this have anything to do with Comey's prior conversation with Trump? Trump thinking Comey is "not loyal"--but to who?

	During the dinner, the President returned to the salacious material I had briefed him about on January 6, and, as he had done previously, expressed his disgust for the allegations and strongly denied them.  He said he was consideringordering me to investigate the alleged incident to prove it didn’t happen.  I replied that he should give that careful thought because it might create a narrative that we were investigating him personally, which we weren’t, and because it was very difficult to prove a negative.  He said he would think about it and asked me to think about it.

So Trump was thinking about the dossier convo


	When the door by the grandfather clock closed, and we were alone, the President began by saying, “I want to talk about Mike Flynn.”  Flynn had resigned the previous day. The President began by saying Flynn hadn’t done anything wrong in speaking with the Russians, but he had to let him go because he had misled the Vice President.  He added that he had other concerns about Flynn, which he did not then specify.


Did Trump mention blackmail potential of Flynn?

	The President then returned to the topic of Mike Flynn, saying, “He is a good guy and has been through a lot.”  He repeated that Flynn hadn’t done anything wrong on his calls with the Russians, but had misled the Vice President.He then said, “I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go.  He is a good guy.  I hope you can let this go.”  I repliedonlythat “he is a good guy.” (In fact, I had a positive experience dealing with Mike Flynn when he was a colleague as Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency at the beginning of my term at FBI.)I did not say I would “let this go.”  

Let what go? referring to Flynn lying to Pence? Or Flynn talking to the Russians?

	I immediately prepared an unclassified memo of the conversation about Flynn and discussed the matter with FBI senior leadership.  I had understood the President to be requesting that we drop any investigation of Flynn in connection with false statements about his conversations with the Russian ambassador in December.

So Comey thinks Trump was talking about Flynn lying about his conversations with Russians

Did Flynn lie to the FBI? did Trump know?

	The FBI leadership team agreed with me that it was important not to infect the investigative team with the President’s request, which we did not intend to abide. 


Which investigation? possibly Comey would have counterintel investigation into Flynn being compromised? any criminal investigation into Flynn?


Comey says he didn't alert Sessions because he expected he would likely recuse himself. Why did he expect that? Why not alert deputy AG then? because he would "also not be long in that role?"


	On the morning of March 30, the President called me at the FBI.  He described the Russia investigation as “a cloud” that was impairing his ability to act on behalf of the country.  He said he had nothing to do with Russia, had not been involved with hookers in Russia, and had always assumed he was being recorded when in Russia.  He asked what we could do to “lift the cloud.”  I responded that we were investigating the matter as quickly as we could, and that there would be great benefit, if we didn’t find anything, to our having done the work well.  He agreed, but then re-emphasized the problems this was causing him. 

Trump worried about the dossier? "lift the cloud" of the blackmail allegations? or was Trump blackmailed after all?

Trump wanted the public to know that he wasn't under investigation for Russia-related problems (that is pretty clear, e.g. in his firing letter)

Trump wanted FBI to clear names of him and "satellite" associates that did nothing wrong

	In an abrupt shift, he turned the conversation to FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, saying he hadn’t brought up “the McCabe thing” because I had said McCabe was honorable, although McAuliffe was close to the Clintons and had given him (I think he meant Deputy Director McCabe’s wife)campaign money.  Although I didn’t understand why the President was bringing this up, I repeated that Mr. McCabe was an honorable person.   

Trump distrusting McCabe? thinking working for the Clintons or something?

	He finished by stressing “the cloud” that was interfering with his ability to make deals for the country and said he hoped I could find a way to get out that he wasn’t being investigated.  I told him I would see what we could do, and that we would do our investigative work well and as quickly as we could.  

Trump sounds like he's saying he was being blackmailed?

Comey reported this convo (March 30) to Rosentein. Did he report the other convo?

Why did Trump want to call Comey on March 30?


Call again April 11, says "the cloud" in the way of doing his job. 

	He said he would do that and added, “Because I have been very loyal to you, very loyal; we had that thing you know.”  

Is Trump afraid of Comey?


------

https://www.yahoo.com/news/comey-wrote-bombshell-letter-to-congress-before-fbi-had-reviewed-new-emails-220219586.html?soc_src=mail&soc_trk=ma
	At the time Comey wrote the letter, “he had no idea what was in the content of the emails,” one of the officials said, referring to recently discovered emails that were found on the laptop of disgraced ex-Rep. Anthony Weiner, the estranged husband of top Clinton aide Huma Abedin. Weiner is under investigation for allegedly sending illicit text messages to a 15-year-old girl.

	As of Saturday night, the FBI was still in talks with the Justice Department about obtaining a warrant that would allow agency officials to read any of the newly discovered Abedin emails, and therefore was still in the dark about whether they include any classified material that the bureau has not already seen.

	“We do not have a warrant,” a senior law enforcement official said. “Discussions are under way [between the FBI and the Justice Department] as to the best way to move forward.”


http://www.npr.org/2016/10/30/499960392/5-things-we-know-about-the-fbi-clinton-email-inquiry-and-4-things-we-dont
	FBI Obtains Warrant To Search Emails That Renewed Look Into Clinton Server

	Sources tell NPR that the emails appear to come from a laptop that Weiner and Abedin sometimes shared. The investigators' theory is that Abedin apparently used the laptop at home for some correspondence that could be related to State Department business, sources said.

	It is not clear whether any of the newly discovered emails were sent or received by Clinton.

	Another key question is whether the documents are copies of material already reviewed by the FBI during its yearlong investigation into Clinton's email server, or whether they are new — and whether they contain classified material.

	...A spate of new polls gauging the state of the race nationally and in key battleground states emerged Sunday. While a lot of those polls show the race tightening, they were largely taken before this news broke on Friday. That reflects Republicans coming back to Trump after distancing themselves after the release of the 2005 Access Hollywood video and accusations of sexual assault.


https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/05/09/us/politics/document-FBI-Comey-Testimony-Clarifying-Letter.html
	the FBI believes it is reasonable to conclude that most of the emails found on Mr. Weiner's laptop computer related to the Clinton investigation occured as a result of a backup of personal electronic devices, with a small number a result of manual forwarding by Mrs. Abedin to Mr. Weiner. Investigaros identified approximately 49,000 e-mails which were potentially relevant to the investigation. All were reviewed with a particular focus on those containing classified information. Investigators ultimately determined that two e-mail chains containing classified information were manually forward to Mr. Wiener's account. Ten additional chains containing classified information also were found on the laptop computer as a result of backup activity. All twelve chains previously had been reviewed by investigators.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	COMEY: And so they came in and said, we can see thousands of emails from the Clinton email domain, including many, many, many from the Verizon Clinton domain, BlackBerry domain. They said we think we got to get a search warrant to go get these, and the Department of Justice agreed we had to go get a search warrant.


 	...I've got to tell Congress that we're restarting this, not in some frivolous way, in a hugely significant way.

what does he mean by that?

	And the team also told me, we cannot finish this work before the election. And then they worked night after night after night, and they found thousands of new emails, they found classified information on Anthony Weiner.

they found 12 chains all previously reviewed

	Somehow, her emails are being forwarded to Anthony Weiner, including classified information, by her assistant, Huma Abedin. And so they found thousands of new emails and then called me the Saturday night before the election and said thanks to the wizardry of our technology, we've only had to personally read 6,000. We think we can finish tomorrow morning, Sunday.

Saturday when the warrant went through

no update on "we can finish tomorrow"?

update "found no emails" on Nov 6

http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/presidential-races/304587-house-oversight-chairman-fbi-has-not-changed-conclusions
Ok, Sunday Nov 6 he announces "no no emails"

Oct 30 get the warrant


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	And so I met with them and they said we found a lot of new stuff. We did not find anything that changes our view of her intent. So we're in the same place we were in July. It hasn't changed our view and I asked them lots of questions and I said okay, if that's where you are, then I also have to tell Congress that we're done.

Said they didn't find any new stuff

Comey wanted to tell Congress? not public?


	I would not conceal that, on October 28, from the Congress. And I sent the letter to Congress, by the way, people forget this, I didn't make a public announcement. I sent a private letter to the chairs and the rankings of the oversight committees.

"I didn't make a public announcement" why say that?


	FEINSTEIN: Well, let me respond. On the letter, it was just a matter of minutes before the world knew about it. Secondly, my understanding — and staff has just said to me — that you didn't get a search warrant before making the announcement.

	COMEY: I think that's right. I think I authorized and the Department of Justice agreed we were going to seek a search warrant. I actually don't see it as a meaningful distinction.

no warrant before announcement

	And was there any conflict among your staff, people saying do it, people saying don't do it; as has been reported?

	COMEY: No, there was a great debate. I have a fabulous staff at all levels and one of my junior lawyers said, should you consider that what you're about to do may help elect Donald Trump president? And I said, thank you for raising that, not for a moment because down that path lies the death of the FBI as an independent institution in America. I can't consider for a second whose political fortunes will be affected in what way.

Was aware could effect election. "can't consider for a second whose political fortunes will be affected in what way."


	Historians can debate what kind of an effect it was. But you — you did do it. The — in October, the FBI was investigating the Trump campaign's connection to Russia. You sent a letter informing the Senate and House (inaudible) reviewing additional emails. It could be relevant to this but both investigations are open but you've have still only commented on one.

	COMEY: I commented as I explained earlier, on October 28 in a letter that I sent to the chair and rankings of the oversight committees, that we were taking additional steps in the Clinton email investigation because I had testified under oath repeatedly that we were done, that we were finished there.

Comey says he was ammending his testimony?


	Will you commit to ensuring that the relevant congressional committees receive a full and timely briefing on that investigations findings?

	COMEY: In general, I can Senator. I need Department of Justice approval to brief on particular people that we're investigating.

Did he have approval to brief on Clinton?




------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/?utm_term=.3cb889c15f76

	As a ranking -- as the ranking member of the Rules Committee, I'm particularly concerned about ensuring our elections are safe from foreign interference. I recently led a group of 26 senators in calling for full account of the Election Assistance Commission's efforts to address Russian cyber security threats in the 2016 election. I'm also working on legislation in this area.

	Can you discuss how the FBI has coordinated with the Election Assistance Commission, Department of Homeland Security, and state and local election officials to help protect the integrity of our election process?

	COMEY: Thank you, Senator. In short, what we've done with DHS is share the tools, tactics and techniques we see hackers, especially from the 2016 election season, using to attack voter registration databases and -- and try and engage in other hacks. And we've pushed that out to all the states and to the Election Assistance Commission so they can harden their networks. That's one of the most important things we can do is equip them with the information to make their systems tighter.

talking about the "flash warning" maybe?

Is that all the FBI has done?


------

	GRAHAM: OK. The Chairman mentioned that fusion -- are you familiar with fusion?

	COMEY: I know the name.

	GRAHAM: OK. Are they part of the Russian intelligence apparatus? COMEY: I can't say.

why not?

	GRAHAM: Do you agree with me that a fusion was involved in preparing the dossier against Donald Trump? That would be interfering in our election by the Russians?

	COMEY: I don't want to say.

why not?


	GRAHAM: OK. When it comes to Russia, is it fair to say that the government of Russia actively provides safe haven to cyber criminals?

	COMEY: Yes.

	GRAHAM: Is it fair to say that the Russian government still involved in American politics?

	COMEY: Yes.

	GRAHAM: Is it fair to say we need to stop them from doing this?

	COMEY: Yes, fair to say.

Comey agrees on that

	GRAHAM: Do you agree with me the only way they're going to stop this for them to pay a price for interfering in our political process?

	COMEY: I think that's a fair statement.

what kind of price, I wonder?


	GRAHAM: Yes, OK. So what we're doing today that is not working. They're still doing it. They're doing it all the world, aren't they?

	COMEY: Yes.

	GRAHAM: So what kind of threat do you believe Russia presents to our Democratic process, given what you know about Russia's behavior of late?

	COMEY: Well, certainly in my view, the greatest threat of any nation on earth, given their intention and their capability.

Comey agrees Russia a great threat


	GRAHAM: Do you agree that they did not change the actual vote tally, but one day they might?

	COMEY: I agree that -- I very much we found no indication of any change in vote tallies. There was efforts aimed at voter registration systems, but I suppose in theory, part of the United States, the -- the beauty of our system is it's a bit of a hairball. And all different kinds of systems and -- and you know...

	GRAHAM: Have they done this in other countries where they actually tampered with the vote?

	COMEY: My -- my understanding is they have attempted it in other countries.

Comey says Russia hacked vote tallies in other countries, but ours is resilliant because its a hairball

	GRAHAM: And there's no reason they won't attempted here if we don't stop them over time?

	COMEY: I think that's fair.

Comey says Russia will hack our votes unless we stop them


------


	Can you tell us what the FBI is doing to prepare for that 2018 and 2020 circumstance that you envision?

	COMEY: Without giving to much detail, we have a -- enormous part of the FBI in our counter intelligence division and in our cyber division that focuses on just that threat and making sure that we do everything that we can to understand how the bad guys might come at us. And as I talked about earlier to equip the civilian agencies that are responsible for hardening our infrastructure with all the information we have about how they're going to come at us.

FBI to help stop the Russians from interfering in our elections


------

	What is your assessment of why the Russian government had a clear preference for President Trump?

	COMEY: The intelligence communities' assessment had a couple of parts with respect to that. One is he wasn't Hillary Clinton, who Putin hated and wanted to harm in any possible way, and so he was her opponent, so necessarily they supported him.

	And then also this second notion that the intelligence community assessed that Putin believed he would be more able to make deals, reach agreements with someone with a business background than with someone who'd grown up in more of a government environment.

That's the intel community's assessment, but what about Comey's?


------

	COONS: Well, in response to questions from Senator Sasse and Senator Graham earlier, you stated that you fully expect Russia to continue to be engaged in efforts to influence our elections and you expect them to be back in 2018 and 2020. What more should we be doing both to defend our election infrastructure and our future elections against continuing Russian interference?

	And what more are you doing -- is the agency doing to help our allies in countries like France and Germany that have upcoming elections where there's every reason to believe the Russians are actively interfering there as well?

	COMEY: Thank you, Senator. I think two things we can do and that we are doing, both in the United States and with our allies is telling the people responsible for protecting the election infrastructure in the United States, everything we know about how the Russian's and others try to attack those systems, how they might come at it, what IP addresses they might use, what phishing techniques they might use and then we've shared the same thing with our allies that one.

so saying stop the voter roll tampering?


	Two, to equip the American people and our allies to understand that this going on because a big part of what the Russians did was pushing out false information, echoing it with these troll farms that they use and I think one of the most important things we can do is tell the American voter this is going on.

	You should be skeptical, you should ask questions, you should understand the nature of the news that you're getting and we've delivered that same message to our European colleagues, and an interesting thing is happening, the marketplace of ideas is responding to this.


why doesn't comey do this more? says "troll farms" but seems there's a lot more than that.


	Because it's not a role for government, people are out there using the power of social media to push back against this kind of thing in France, in the Netherlands, in Germany and I hope it will happen here in the United States, where ordinary citizens will see this bogus stuff going on and push back -- kind of have good troll armies pushing back the other way. So the market place of information is better educated frankly.

"troll armies" and "social media" -- is Comey saying that's it?


------


	The investigation we now know that was ongoing into the Trump campaign and the investigation ongoing into Secretary Clinton. I'm concerned about what the future practice will be. How has the approach taken with regard to the Clinton investigation been memorialized and have you modified in any way, FBI or department procedures regarding disclosure of information concerning investigations particularly close to an election?

	COONS: We have not. And the reason for that is, everything that we did -- that I did, was in my view consistent with existing Department of Justice policy. That is we don't confirm the existence of investigations except in unusual circumstances.

	We don't talk about closed -- we don't talk about investigations that don't result in criminal charges unless there is a compelling public interest. And so those principles should still govern. We also whenever humanly possible avoid any action that might have an impact on an election. I still believe that to be true and an incredibly important guiding principle. It's one that I labored under here.

So is Comey saying he violated policy? or the oct 27 letter was for extraordinary public interest? was the investigation closed at that point?


------

	Had there been public notice that there was renewed investigation into both campaigns, I think the impact would have been different, would you agree?

	COMEY: No. I thought a lot about this and my judgment was a counter -- we have to separate two things. I thought it was very important to call out what the Russians were trying to do with our election. And I offered in August myself to be a voice for that in a public piece calling it out. The Obama administration didn't take advantage of that August. They did it in October, but I thought that was very important to call out.

talking about op-ed. Very important to call out what they were trying to do.

What in Comey's view were they trying to do? if so important, why not call out more...


	...we don't confirm the existence of certainly any investigation that involves a U.S. person but a classified investigation in its early stages, we don't know what we have, what is there. And so I -- my judgment was consistent with the principles I've always operated under, that was the right thing to do. 

A bit confusing? maybe some conflicting principles here


	HIRONO: So you do not consider that your statements about a person who was running for president would not have a negative effect on her?

	COMEY: I tried very hard not to consider what effect it might have politically. I tried very hard to credibly complete an investigation that had gotten extraordinary public attention and my judgment and people can disagree about this, was that offering as much transparency as possible about what we did, what we found, and what we think of it was the best way to credibly complete the investigation. I wasn't thinking about what effect it might have on a political campaign.

Comey doesn't want to think about impact on election, "as much transparency as possible."


	...COMEY: I knew there would be ramifications. I just tried not to care about them. I knew there'd be a huge storm that would come, but I tried to say what is the right thing to do in this case?

knew it would affect election, but "doing the right thing"


-----

	Under the terms of that statute, the fact pattern you described in this hearing seems to fit that statute directly, in that -- if I understand you correctly -- you said Ms. Abedin forwarded hundreds or thousands of classified e-mails to her husband on a non-government non-classified computer. How is -- how does that conduct not directly violate that statute?

	COMEY: First, senator, I -- I -- I -- if I said that I misspoke. She forwarded hundreds and thousands of e-mails, some of which contain classified information.

comey: Abedin fowarded hundreds of thousands of emails


------

	Are those media reports correct?

	COMEY: No. I stand by what I said originally. I can't go into the details of it here, because they're classified, but I think a fair thing to say is the media reports are highly misleading. And in a classified setting I could explain to you how.

why misleading? how does it happen?


------

	BLUMENTHAL: Have you ruled out anyone in the campaign that you can disclose?

	COMEY: I don't feel comfortable answering that, Senator because I think it puts me on a slope to talking about who we're investigating.

could he clear anyones name if investigation is finished? is that against policy or something?


	BLUMENTHAL: So potentially, the president of the United States could be a target of your ongoing investigation into the Trump campaign's involvement with Russian interference in our election, correct?

	COMEY: I just worry -- I don't want to answer that -- that -- that seems to be unfair speculation. We will follow the evidence, we'll try and find as much as we can and we'll follow the evidence wherever it leads.

wait, did he answer that now?


	BLUMENTHAL: Do you have any regrets or are there any things you would do differently in connection with either the comments you made at the time you closed the investigation or when you then indicated to Congress that you were in effect reopening it?

	COMEY: Yes, the honest answer is no. I've asked myself that a million times because, Lordy (ph), has this been painful. The only thing I regret is that (ph) maybe answering the phone when they called to recruit me to be FBI director when I was living happily in Connecticut.

COMEY: Yes, but I -- really I can't. And I've -- I've gotten all kinds of rocks thrown at me and this has been really hard but I think I've done the right thing at each turn. I'm not on anybody's side. So hard for people to see that. But I -- look, I've asked that a million times.

Should you have done this, should you have done that, and I -- the honest answer -- I don't mean to sound arrogant -- I wouldn't have done it any differently. Somehow I'd have prayed it away, wished it away, wished that I was on the shores of the Connecticut sounds, but failing that I don't have any regrets.

NO RAGRETS

------

	When you briefed us last year, I think that you said that there were some -- that there were ongoing investigations on homeland -- on Homeland Security potential terrorist, either home grown or foreign inspired investigations in every state. Is that still the case?

	COMEY: Yes.

	TILLIS: Do you have roughly an -- can you give me roughly an idea of the number of investigations that is?

	COMEY: Yes it's just north of 1,000.

	TILLIS: Just north of 1,000.

	COMEY: Yes. That case load has stayed about the same since we last talked about it. Some have closed, some have opened. But about 1,000 home grown violent extremist investigations in the United States.

but what about "foreign inspired"?

	COMEY: Yes. Then we have another big group of people that we're looking at who we see some contact with foreign terrorists. So you take that 2,000 plus cases, about 300 of them are people who came to the United States as refugees.

2,000 plus foreign

----

	TILLIS: Was there some logic in that at the time that you were making that decision based on the information that you were provided, was there the same sort of thought process that you're going through there to have it rise to that level that then lead to your October 28th notification of Congress that you had to look at other evidence that had been identified on Anthony Weiner's PC?

What I'm trying to do is say it looks like you were trying to provide as much transparency and as much real-time information as you had.

	COMEY: Yes.


Comey said he was trying to be as transparent as possible with his letter


------

	COMEY: And I -- I -- I've lived my whole life caring about the credibility and the integrity of the criminal justice process, that the American people believe it to be and that it be in fact fair, independent and honest. And so what I struggled with in the spring of last year was how do we credibly complete the investigation of Hillary Clinton's e-mails if we conclude there's no case there?

	The normal way to do it would be to the Department of Justice announce it. And I struggled as we got closer to the end of it with the -- a number things had gone on, some of which I can't talk about yet, that made me worry that the department leadership could not credibly complete the investigation and declined prosecution without grievous damage to the American people's confidence in the -- in the justice system.

Comey worried Justice Department couldn't credibly complete the investigation.

What does that mean exactly? credible to who?

I guess in the eyes of public "American peoples confidence in justice system."

cites the tarmac meeting

	That was a hard call for me to make to the call the attorney general that morning and say I'm about to do a press conference and I'm not going to tell you what I'm going to say. And I said to her, hope someday you'll understand why I think I have to do this. But look, I wasn't loving this.

	I knew this would be disastrous for me personally, but I thought this is the best way to protect these institutions that we care so much about. 

"hard call", "the best way"---what were your other options? shouldn't the American people know?


	That when the Anthony Weiner thing landed on me on October 27 and there was a huge -- this is what people forget -- new step to be taken, we may be finding the golden missing e-mails that would change this case. If I were not to speak about that, it would be a disastrous, catastrophic concealment.

So Comey thinking of public perception here with the Oct 27 case? if they find the golden email, it would be a "huge catastrophic disasterous" concealment

	I had to tell Congress that we were taking these additional steps. I prayed to find a third door. I couldn't find it.

how about wait for a warrent you fucking nutjob

	If you were standing there staring at that on October 28, would you really conceal that. So I spoke. Again, the design was to act credibly, independently and honestly so the American people know the system's not rigged in any way. And that's why I felt transparency was the best path in July.

So sounds like Comey is saying, he didn't want public to think justice system was rigged for Hillary, and that was his motive.

Earlier he made it sound like he had to ammend his testimony...

	And that I wasn't seeking transparency. In October, I sent that letter only to the chairs and rankings. Yes, did I know they really going to leak it? Of course, I know how Congress works, but I did not make an announcement at that point.

knew it would leak, was thinking about public perception

	And then my amazing people moved heaven and earth to do what was impossible to get through those e-mails by working 24 hours a day and then said, honestly, sir, we found tons of new stuff doesn't change our view.

they said they found 12 email chains already reviewed


	And I said, are you sure, don't do it just because you're under pressure.

why ask that? why mention this publicly?

	But what I can promise you all along is I said to people, you may think we're idiots, we're honest people.

sure, but what about you?


------

Want me to repeat it? Do FBI policies allow it to pay an outside investigator for work that another source is also paying that investigator for?

COMEY: I don't know for sure as I sit here. Possibly is my answer. But I'll get you a precise answer.

GRASSLEY: In writing?

COMEY: Sure.

well do they? any answer?


Before I sent you a letter about this, were you aware of the complaint against Fusion was acting as on registered agent for Russian interest?

COMEY: That's not a question I can answer in this forum.

GRASSLEY: You can't answer that?

COMEY: No. No I can't.

why not? I mean if its registered with the DOJ... isn't that publicly available?


GRASSLEY: Just as a matter of proposition, then. If -- if I, Chuck Grassley as a private citizen, filed a freedom of information act and you give me more information than you'll give to Senator Chuck Grassley, how do you justify that?

COMEY: Yes its a good question. I don't...

GRASSLEY: What do you mean it's a good question, how do you justify it?

COMEY: Well, I was going to say, it's a good question, I can't as I sit here.

GRASSLEY: Egads (ph). Was the Clinton investigation named Operation Midyear because it needed to be finished before the Democratic National Convention. If so, why the artificial deadline? If not, why was that the name?

what's up with that

-----

WHITEHOUSE: Because there's a great deal of material that while technically classified is widely known to the public and because over classification is a very significant problem within the executive branch, correct?

COMEY: Correct and DOJ reserves prosecution for the most serious matters, in my experience.

WHITEHOUSE: And that would've been evaluated also in looking at Secretary Clinton's e-mails?

COMEY: Yes.

WHITEHOUSE: So though they were classified, they may not have caused any harm in terms of who saw them? Well I mean, not I guess specific to that. There are e-mails that could be classified and cause no harm if they were disclosed?

COMEY: Yes there are -- that is the case.


interesting--I heard she had leaked the name of a CIA officer, among other things

actually that was in the FBI's docs

------

WHITEHOUSE: It has been disclosed and publicly reported that there was a two day interval, between the FBI interview of Michael Flynn related to his conversations with Ambassador Kislyak and then deputy attorney general's report to White House Counsel about those calls.

Did you participate in conversations related to this matter during that two day interval and what can you tell us about why that interval took two days, was there some standard operating procedure that needed to be vindicated? Was there -- you'd think that that could've flipped over to a conversation to the White House a good deal quicker than that once the agent's report came back from the interview.

COMEY: Yes, I don't -- I don't know whether two days is right. I think it might have been a day. I could be wrong. It could have been two days. And I did participate in conversations about that matter, and I think I'll stop there because I don't ...


implying Comey stalling Yates

WHITEHOUSE: OK.

COMEY: ... I don't know the department's position on -- on speaking about those communications.

and Lynch didn't know wtf you were going to say, so...


WHITEHOUSE: But as you sit here, you don't have any hesitation about that delay, about it representing any kind of, you know, mischief or misconduct?

COMEY: No, no and given your experience you know how this works. An agent conducts an interview, they're going back, they write up a 302, they show it to their partner, they make sure they get it right, then they produce the 302, so sometimes it's the next day before it's finished.

WHITEHOUSE: So the deputy -- Ms. Yates would have seen the 302, and that process would've taken place by the time she went up to see White House counsel McGahn?

COMEY: I think that's right, yes.


But according to her testimony, she didn't have the 302. She had a read-out


------


WHITEHOUSE: OK, thank you. And onto the Weiner laptop. As I understand it, you were informed by agents in the FBI office that there was potentially related or relevant information in Mr. Weiner's laptop. On the basis of that information, you then sent a letter to the members of Congress, before whom you had committed to answer if there were any changes in the status of things.

You also then authorized the agents to pursue a search warrant, which then gave them access to the content, which allowed them to do the search, that you then said came up with nothing so that you could then undo the letter and say, actually we took a look and there's nothing there. Is that the -- do I have the order correctly there?

COMEY: Right, they came to me, they briefed me on what they could see from the metadata, why it was significant. They thought they ought to seek a search warrant, wanted my approval to do that. I agreed, authorized it. So did the Department of Justice and then they reviewed -- I was just making sure I get the numbers right.

During the -- the following week, they reviewed 40,000 e-mails -- I understated how many they reviewed -- and found the 3,000 of them were work related and came from BlackBerry backups and a bunch of other things ...


So they brought to him, asked for a warrant, wanted approval, Comey gave, then sent letter.

Comey: reveiwed 40,000 em-mails (but said she fowarded hundreds of thousands), 3k from backups "and a bunch of other things"


WHITEHOUSE: My question ...

COMEY: And then 12 -- and then 12 of them were classified, but we'd seen them all before.

but earlier said "we saw all this new stuff"


------

WHITEHOUSE: Did any of those classified e-mails create national security damage?

COMEY: That's a hard one to answer. By definition, the classification is based on the potential national security damage.

WHITEHOUSE: With respect to our earlier conversation ...

COMEY: Yes.

WHITEHOUSE: ... that tons of stuff is classified that is on the front page of the New York Times.

COMEY: I'm not aware that any of these e-mails or any the e- mails in the investigation got into the hands of people that were able to exploit them to damage our national security.

interesting--the 12 emails would damage national security if leaked

(maybe part of the question of why wasn't weiner prosecuted?)


------

WHITEHOUSE: So let me offer you this hypothetical. They come to you and say the metadata shows that we have potential information here that could be relevant and could cause us to reopen the information.

It would seem to me that it would be as sensible at that moment to say how quickly can you get a search warrant and how quickly can we get an answer that question because I made a promise to people in Congress that I would get back to them with this information.

And if there's anything real here, you need to get on that pronto so that I can answer that question, so that the search warrant precedes the letter rather than the letter preceding the search warrant, particularly in light of the widely adhered to policy the department not to disclose ongoing investigative materials. And their truly exceptional nature of disclosures. Why not the search warrant first?

COMEY: Well I pressed him very hard on that. And found credible their responses that there was no way -- no way they could review the volume of information they saw on the laptop in the time remaining.

WHITEHOUSE: Except that they did.

COMEY: Well they did, and -- because our wizards at our operational technology division came up with a way to de-dupe electronically -- that as I understand it involved writing a custom software program that's going to help us in lots of other areas. But investigative team said, sir we cannot finish this before the election.

so talked about finishing before election, team said "we can't" (how would they know?), then amazingly techno-wizzed a custom software program in a few days (completely impossible) that Comey didn't know about to de-dupe

actually de-dupe is piss easy, just hash

would be something they would already have, no?

was investigation even "open" before warrant?


------





so what did Comey do?

contradicting himself all over the place, why exactly go public with email scandal?

invite the Russians to hack us saying "its impossible," undercutting deterrence efforts


say goal wasn't to elect Trump, giving Russian propagandists ammo, confusing the whole thing

and would be easy to say Clinton hated and feared maybe not true


weird what he chooses to say and not to say, like says Russia can blackmail everybody, but then mum on things that Yates says, things easy to answer

showed blackmail to Trump, even though he knew it was false

his "principles" guiding him don't make sense--don't want to interfere in election, want to be transparent--which is it?


Basically this is going to end up Comey's word vs. Trump's. But we don't know if Trump was concerned about being blackmailed "this cloud," or if he was concerned with the investigation--did he even know if Flynn was under investigation?

And as for clearing people not under investigation, well Comey did that for Clinton, didn't he?

Anyway, this is probably why Russian propagandists push the Comey firing as the big deal--if it comes to to Comey's word vs Trump, it's a shit-show. Might be way they have propaganda to discredit Comey in the first place. That's why the Yates deal is more important--that's a solid reason to look into abuse of power without the mess of relying on Comey.


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/election-hacks-russian/
	FBI Director James Comey agrees.

	“The vote counting in this country tends to be kind of clunky,” which is a blessing because it makes harder for hackers to infiltrate, Comey said. “It makes it more resilient and farther away from an actor who might be looking to crawl down a fiber-optic cable, and find there actually is no fiber optic cable — that it’s actually some woman named Sally and a guy named Joe and they roll the thing (voting machine) over and pull out the punch cards,” Comey said.

	Such reassurances have not eased concern on Capitol Hill, yet reaction has been mixed.

	Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid of Nevada was “deeply shaken” after a half-hour briefing about Russian activities that he received at the FBI office in Las Vegas, according to an individual familiar with the briefing. The individual was not authorized to publicly discuss the briefing and spoke only on condition of anonymity.

	An aide to another senator, who also was briefed, said what gave the lawmaker “pause” was that Russia might be meddling in the United States in the same way it has in Eastern Europe where it has a history of using cyberattacks to facilitate their political objectives.



------

Comey likes to talk about how easy it is for hackers to spy on you:



------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	COMEY: Correct, that they wanted to hurt our democracy, hurt her, help him. I think all three we were confident in, at least as early as December.
 
	CONAWAY: OK. The -- the paragraph that gives me a little concern there, in terms of just the timing of when all of that occurred because I'm not sure if we went back and got that exact same January assessment six months earlier, it would've looked the same. Because, you say, when we further assessed Putin and the Russian government developed a clear preference for President-elect Trump.
 
	Any idea when that clear preference in the analysis, when did that get into the lexicon of whether you talk back and forth among yourselves on a -- on a classified basis?
 
	COMEY: I don't know for sure, but I think that was a fairly easy judgment for the community. He -- Putin hated Secretary Clinton so much, that the flipside of that coin was he had a clear preference for the person running against the person he hated so much.



https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	NUNES: At some point -- at some point, the assessment -- at some point, the assessment changed from -- from going from just trying to hurt Hillary Clinton to no, that they were actually trying to help Donald Trump get elected. That was early December as far as I know and then by January, you had all changed your mind on that.
 
	COMEY: Well that's not my recollection.


so Comey saying they were trying to hurt Clinton, pretty clear



https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/03/20/full-transcript-fbi-director-james-comey-testifies-on-russian-interference-in-2016-election/
	Mr. Comey and Mr. Rogers, you both said that the Russians had -- they favored Donald Trump, the selection. And you made that change, from the beginning of December it was not that they were trying to help Donald Trump, but that changed by early January. Mr. Conaway talked about that. Do -- do Russians...
 
	COMEY: I don't -- I don't agree with that. I want to make sure I didn't misspeak earlier. We didn't change our view from December to early January. We, the FBI -- and I don't know that anybody else did on the I.C. team.


------

https://oversight.house.gov/hearing/oversight-state-department/
	Mr. CLAY. In your opinion, do the mistakes Secretary Clinton has already  apologized  for  and  expressed  regret  for  rise  to  a  level  that  would be worthy of Federal prosecution?
Mr.  COMEY
.  As  I  said  Tuesday,  our  judgment,  not  just  mine,  but  
the  team’s  judgment  at  the  FBI,  is  that  the  Justice  Department  
would  not  bring  such  a  case.  No  Justice  Department  under  any—  
whether Republican or Democrat administration. 

Comey pre-judging case


Ms.  LUJAN GRISHAM
. 
So, Mr. Comey, is there any evidence, given that that’s the stand-
ard  that  we  all  want,  desire,  and  expect,  to  suggest  that  Hillary  
Clinton  was  not  charged  by  the  Department  of  Justice  due  to  inappropriate  political  influence,  or  due  to  her  current  or  previous  pub-
lic positions?
Mr.  C
OMEY
.  Zero.  And  if  there  is  such  evidence,  I’d  love  folks  to  
show it to me

so saying no influence in decision not to charge, not about going public...


Mr.  C
OMEY
.  Well,  I  am  not  confirming  that  we  are  investigating  
people associated with Mr. Trump.
In  the  matter  of  the  email  investigation,  it  was  our  judgment—  
my  judgment  and  the  rest  of  the  FBI’s  judgment  that  those  were  
exceptional circumstances where the public needed transparency. 


But is Russian interference not in the public interest?


Ms.  LOFGREN.
Yesterday, there were press reports—and I don’t know if they are
accurate,  and  I  am  interested  if  you  are  able  to  tell  us—that  the  
Russians  have  also  hacked  the  telephones  of  Democratic  staffers  
and  that  there  was  a  request  for  Democratic  staffers  to  bring  their  
cell phones into the FBI to have them mirrored.
Can you tell us anything about that?
Mr.  C
OMEY
.  I  can’t  at  this  point.  What  I  can  say  in  response  to  
the  first  part  of  your  question,  any  hacking  is  something  we  take  
very  seriously.  Any  hacking  in  connection  with  this  Nation’s  elec-
tion  system  is  something  we  take  extraordinarily  seriously,  the  
whole  of  government.  So  it  is  something  the  FBI  is  spending  a  lot  
of  time  on  right  now  to  try  and  understand.  So  what  are  they  up  
to  and  what  does  it  involve  and  what  is  the  scope  of  it  to  equip  the  
President  to  decide  upon  the  appropriate  response.  And  so  that  is  
one  of  reasons  I  have  to  be  very  careful  about  what  I  say  about  it.  
That  work  is  ongoing.  I  should  make  clear  to  folks  when  we  talk  
about  our  election  system,  there  has  been  a  lot  of  press  reporting  
about  attempts  to  intrude  into  voter  registration  databases.  Those  
are  connected  to  the  Internet.  That  is  very  different  than  the  elec-
toral mechanism in this country, which is not. 


Ms.  J
ACKSON
L
EE
.  Did  you  or  anyone  at  the  FBI  ever  object  to  
these decisions to grant immunity? Did you think they made sense?
Mr. C
OMEY
. No. It was fairly ordinary stuff.
Ms.  J
ACKSON
L
EE
.  Was  the  FBI  or  DOJ  handing  out  immunity  
agreements like candy?
Mr. C
OMEY
. That is not how I saw it. I didn’t see it—— 


they were


Director  Comey,  since  these  flash  alerts  and  warnings  went  out  
over  this  summer,  I  would  appreciate  you  letting  us  know  whether  
or  not  there  have  been  any  additional  attacks  on  State  operations  
or databases since June.
Mr.  C
OMEY
.  There  have  been  a  variety  of  scanning  activities,  
which  is  a  preamble  for  potential  intrusion  activities,  as  well  as  
some  attempted  intrusions  at  voter  registration  databases  beyond  
those we knew about in July and August. We are urging the States
just  to  make  sure  that  their  dead  bolts  are  thrown  and  their  locks  
are  on,  and  to  get  the  best  information  they  can  from  DHS  just  to  
make sure their systems are secure. And again, these are the voter
registration  systems.  This  is  very  different  than  the  vote  system  in  
the  United  States,  which  is  very,  very  hard  for  someone  to  hack  
into,  because  it  is  so  clunky  and  dispersed.  It  is  Mary  and  Fred  
putting  a  machine  under  the  basketball  hoop  at  the  gym.  Those  
things  are  not  connected  to  the  Internet.  But  the  voter  registration  
systems are. So we urge the States to make sure you have the most
current  information  and  your  systems  are  tight.  Because  there  is  
no doubt that some bad actors have been poking around. 


Comey denies Russia can hack voting machines


icluding  myself,  suggested  that  the  Attorney  General  should  recuse  
herself  because  of  her  friendship  with  the  Clintons  and  because  of  
her desire to continue on as Attorney General in a Clinton adminis-
tration.
Then  she  had  the  fortuitous  meeting  on  the  airplane  with  former  
President  Clinton  on  June  30.  Then  on  July  2,  give  or  take,  she  
came  out  and  said,  you  know,  I  have  created  an  appearance  of  im-
propriety,  and  so  I  am  going  to  just  follow  whatever  the  FBI  Direc-
tor’s recommendation is.
And  then,  3  days  later,  you  had  your  press  conference.  And  in  
your  press  conference,  you  said,  ‘‘In  our  system  of  justice,  the  pros-
ecutors  make  the  decisions  about  what  charges  are  appropriate  
based on the evidence.’’ That is not what happened in this case. Ul-
timately, you made the decision. Isn’t that what happened?
Mr.  C
OMEY
.  Well,  I  made  public  my  recommendation.  The  deci-
sion to decline the case was made at the Justice Department.
Mr.  T
ROTT
.  But  before  you  had  that  press  conference,  you  knew,  
based  on  the  Attorney  General’s  public  comments  that  she  was  
going  to  follow  whatever  you  recommended.  So,  ultimately,  you  
made  the  decision  in  this  case  as  to  whether  or  not  charges  should  
be  filed  against  Secretary  Clinton.  Isn’t  that  the  reality  of  what  
happened?
Mr. C
OMEY
. I think that is a fair characterization. The only thing
I would add to that is I think she said—I don’t remember exactly—
that  she  would  defer  to  the  FBI  and  the  career  prosecutors  at  the  
Department of Justice
But,  look,  I  knew  that  once  I  made  public  the  FBI’s  view  that  
this wasn’t a prosecutable case that there was virtually zero chance
that the Department of Justice was going to go in a different direc-
tion. But part of my decision was based on my prediction that there
was  no  way  the  Department  of  Justice  would  prosecute  on  these  
facts in any event.

Comey pre-judging the case 




------


Comey mum on Russia:


https://judiciary.house.gov/hearing/oversight-federal-bureau-investigation/
	SEPTEMBER 28, 2016 


 Mr.  COMEY
. 
    And,  obviously,  as  you  know,  we  are  doing  an  awful  lot  of  work  
through  our  counterintelligence  investigators  to  understand  just  
what  mischief  is  Russia  up  to  in  connection  with  our  election.  That  
is  work  that  goes  on  all  day  every  day,  about  which  I  am  limited  
in  terms  of  answering  questions.  But  I  wanted  you  to  know  that  
is  a  part  of  our  work  we  don’t  talk  about  an  awful  lot  but  it  is  at  
the core of the FBI. 


Mr.  JOHNSON.
On  Monday,  the  
Ranking  Members  of  the  House  and  Senate  Intelligence  Commit-
tees,  Senator  Dianne  Feinstein  and  Congressman  Adam  Schiff,  
issued  a  joint  statement  setting  forth  the  current  status  of  this  in-
vestigation.  It  said  this:  ‘‘Based  on  briefings  we  have  received,  we  
have  concluded  that  the  Russian  intelligence  agencies  are  making  
a  serious  and  concerted  effort  to  influence  the  U.S.  Election.’’  They  
work  closely  with  intelligence  community  individuals  to  be  able  to  
put that statement out to the American public. 
Director  Comey,  I  don’t  want  to  ask  you  about  any  classified  in-
formation, but is their statement accurate? 

Mr.  COMEY
.  I  don’t—I  can’t  comment  on  that  in  this  forum.  As  
I  said  in  my  opening,  we  are  investigating  to  try  to  understand  ex-
actly what mischief the Russians might be up to in connection with 
our  political  institutions  and  the  election  system  more  broadly.  But  
I don’t want to comment on that at this point. 


comey doesn't want to comment? why?



https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/03/read-the-full-testimony-of-fbi-director-james-comey-in-which-he-discusses-clinton-email-investigation/
	Had there been public notice that there was renewed investigation into both campaigns, I think the impact would have been different, would you agree?

	COMEY: No. I thought a lot about this and my judgment was a counter -- we have to separate two things. I thought it was very important to call out what the Russians were trying to do with our election. And I offered in August myself to be a voice for that in a public piece calling it out. The Obama administration didn't take advantage of that August. They did it in October, but I thought that was very important to call out.


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/22/us/politics/james-comey-election.html
	He proposed writing an op-ed piece to appear in The Times or The Washington Post, and showed the White House a draft his staff had prepared, according to two former officials. (After the Times story was published online on Saturday, a former White House official said the text of the op-ed had not been given to the White House.) The op-ed did not mention the investigation of the Trump campaign, but it laid out how Russia was trying to undermine the vote.

	The president replied that going public would play right into Russia’s hands by sowing doubts about the election’s legitimacy. Mr. Trump was already saying the system was “rigged,” and if the Obama administration accused Russia of interference, Republicans could accuse the White House of stoking national security fears to help Mrs. Clinton.

	Mr. Comey argued that he had unique credibility to call out the Russians and avoid that criticism. After all, he said, he had just chastised Mrs. Clinton at his news conference.

	The White House decided it would be odd for Mr. Comey to make such an accusation on his own, in a newspaper, before American security agencies had produced a formal intelligence assessment. The op-ed idea was quashed. When the administration had something to say about Russia, it would do so in one voice, through the proper channels.


----

https://apnews.com/152579d488a740b2a8d39fbe2f34506d/biden-intel-officials-told-us-trump-allegations-might-leak
	Vice President Joe Biden said Thursday that top intelligence leaders told him and President Barack Obama they felt obligated to inform them about uncorroborated allegations about President-elect Donald Trump out of concern the information would become public and catch them off-guard.

	In an interview, Biden said neither he nor Obama asked U.S. intelligence agencies to try to corroborate the unverified claims that Russia had obtained compromising sexual and financial allegations about Trump.

	“I think it’s something that obviously the agency thinks they have to track down,” Biden said. He added later, “It surprised me in that it made it to the point where the agency, the FBI thought they had to pursue it.”

	...“As a matter of fact, the president was like, ’What does this have anything to do with anything?’” Biden said. He said intelligence leaders responded by saying “Well, we feel obliged to tell you, Mr. President, because you may hear about it. We’re going to tell him,” referring to Trump.

	Biden said intelligence leaders told him and Obama that they couldn’t say whether or not the allegations were true or untrue. He said there was “hardly any discussion” about the allegations in the briefing.


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/apps/g/page/politics/oct-28-fbi-letter-to-congressional-leaders-on-clinton-email-investigation/2113/

Comey letter to Congress


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/the-attorney-general-could-have-ordered-fbi-director-james-comey-not-to-send-his-bombshell-letter-on-clinton-emails-heres-why-she-didnt/2016/12/21/7824d00a-c5fd-11e6-85b5-76616a33048d_story.html?utm_term=.4a563859ca47

Lynch arguing with Comey


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-nation/wp/2016/10/28/read-the-letter-comey-sent-to-fbi-employees-explaining-his-controversial-decision-on-the-clinton-email-investigation/
	This morning I sent a letter to Congress in connection with the Secretary Clinton email investigation.  Yesterday, the investigative team briefed me on their recommendation with respect to seeking access to emails that have recently been found in an unrelated case.  Because those emails appear to be pertinent to our investigation, I agreed that we should take appropriate steps to obtain and review them.

	Of course, we don’t ordinarily tell Congress about ongoing investigations, but here I feel an obligation to do so given that I testified repeatedly in recent months that our investigation was completed. I also think it would be misleading to the American people were we not to supplement the record.  At the same time, however, given that we don’t know the significance of this newly discovered collection of emails, I don’t want to create a misleading impression.  In trying to strike that balance, in a brief letter and in the middle of an election season, there is significant risk of being misunderstood, but I wanted you to hear directly from me about it.


------

	COMEY: I agree that -- I very much we found no indication of any change in vote tallies. There was efforts aimed at voter registration systems, but I suppose in theory, part of the United States, the -- the beauty of our system is it's a bit of a hairball. And all different kinds of systems and -- and you know...

	GRAHAM: Have they done this in other countries where they actually tampered with the vote?

	COMEY: My -- my understanding is they have attempted it in other countries.

	GRAHAM: And there's no reason they won't attempted here if we don't stop them over time?

	COMEY: I think that's fair.

	GRAHAM: Thank you.


------


http://legaltimes.typepad.com/files/121908-jamescomey.pdf

Comey making up an excuse for why Eric Holder is actually a good guy
