
wrote this peice on Beslan raid:

http://www.weeklystandard.com/article/14035


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Satter

writes articles critical of Putin, was kicked out of Russia


------

https://www.hudson.org/research/13742-trump-must-stand-strong-against-putin

Advisis Trump not to bend over for Russia

	Making a new “reset” even more inadvisable are signs of Russian involvement with terrorism in Ukraine, Western Europe and in Russia itself. On June 27, Maksim Shapoval, a colonel in Ukrainian military intelligence, was killed by a car bomb in central Kiev. Pavel Sheremet, a Kremlin critic who wrote for the site Ukrainskaya Pravda, was killed in an identical manner in Kiev on July 20, 2016. Russia said Ukraine “had failed to protect him.”

	On March 23, Denis Voronenkov, a former Russian legislator who fled to Ukraine, was shot dead outside the Premier Palace Hotel. There was also an attempt to kill Amina Okueva and her husband, Adam Osmayev, Chechens who fought for Ukraine in the Donbass. Artur Denisultanov-Kurmakyev, a Chechen assassin posing as a French journalist, opened fire on them, but Mrs. Okuyeva shot the assassin four times. Both were wounded but survived.


------

https://twitter.com/KristaKafer/status/875038452739342337
	Why did Russia try to hack our elections? May not be the reason you think. Hudson Institute's @DavidSatter explains: https://kelleyco.podbean.com/e/kelley-and-kafer-june-13-2017-hr-2/ 


Satter has a new theory on why Russia hacked the elections?

But, the link is broken


------


https://www.wsj.com/articles/from-russia-with-chaos-1497307398
	Vladimir Putin doesn’t support Donald Trump. He supports American political paralysis.

	...Hacking on this scale would have been difficult to coordinate with any American political operatives, let alone in the heat of a presidential race. Further, Russian influence operations are almost always a matter of facilitation rather than subordination. Victor Louis, a KGB agent and the father of Soviet disinformation, successfully insinuated lies into the Western press by presenting them as inside information. “American reporters,” he once told me jokingly, “always steal my best ideas.”

	WikiLeaks’s Julian Assange may be sincere when he says that “our source is not the Russian government,” but only because he is more useful to Moscow if he thinks he is acting independently. The Russian practice of achieving objectives “through the hands of others” would make it nearly impossible to coordinate with the Trump campaign as some have alleged.


	...After the publication of the Trump dossier, Mr. Steele went into hiding, supposedly in fear for his life. On March 15, however, Michael Morell, the former acting CIA director, told NBC that Mr. Steele had paid the Russian intelligence sources who provided the information and never met with them directly. In other words, his sources were not only working for pay. Furthermore, Mr. Steele had no way to judge the veracity of their claims. 
