https://web.archive.org/web/20150216030222/https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052748703571704575341633816865778
	A 2008 version of the website for Mr. Heathfield's company, Future Map, lists Leon Fuerth, former Vice President Al Gore's top national-security aide, as an adviser.

	Mr. Fuerth, in an email to The Wall Street Journal, denied he was ever an adviser to Future Map. Mr. Fuerth said he met Mr. Heathfield after delivering a speech and that Mr. Heathfield once proposed a partnership on a research grant.

	"Heathfield introduced himself to me after a speech I gave, and described himself as having similar interests in the subject of long-range foresight as a means for making better decisions," Mr. Fuerth said. "I was (still am) teaching the subject, and he represented that he was dealing with it as a business subject. Eventually, he proposed that we look for a way to partner on a research grant—but the idea didn't appeal to me. Once he understood that I was not interested, he stopped communicating."

	Mr. Fuerth, on vacation in Asia, said he plans to provide details of his contact with Mr. Heathfield to U.S. authorities as soon as possible. "I have never been an advisor to his business," he said. 


https://web.archive.org/web/20081001032736/http://www.futuremap.com:80/about_advisors.html
	Leon Fuerth

	Leon Fuerth is the former national security adviser to Vice President Al Gore. In the early 1980s, Fuerth worked with then-Congressman Gore on issues of arms control and strategic stability. Fuerth served on the Principals' Committee of the National Security Council, alongside the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and the President's own national security adviser.

	As the vice president's national security advisor, Fuerth created and managed five bi-national commissions with Russia, South Africa, Egypt, Ukraine and Kazakhstan. These commissions turned the vice president's vision of forward engagement in America's foreign affairs into a practical reality. Among other important initiatives, Fuerth led efforts to develop the International Space Station; to marshal international support for sanctions against Slobodan Milosevic's regime; to raise awareness and take action to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS in Africa; to denuclearize former Soviet states; to win China's cooperation in protecting the environment and reducing pollution.

	Before beginning his work on Capitol Hill in 1979, Fuerth spent eleven years as a foreign service officer. He holds a bachelor's degree in English and a master's degree in history from New York University, as well as a master's degree in public administration from Harvard University. In 2003 Leon Fuerth was appointed Research Professor at the Elliott School of International Affairs, George Washington University.


"denuclearize former Soviet states"


Another bio on Feurth:


https://forwardengagement.org/whoweare/
	Professor Fuerth was the Select Committee’s expert on arms control verification, in addition to operating as its primary staff resource for monitoring covert action; he was deeply involved in the development of arms control positions by Congressman Gore; and in the Senate, he served as Gore’s staff link to both the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Committee on Science and Technology (Space sub-committee). He was responsible to Senator Gore for all aspects of national security, including international trade.


http://www.russialist.org/archives/4428.html
	Mr. Fuerth is Vice President Gore's longest serving aide. Their relationship 
dates back to 1980, when Mr. Fuerth began advising Congressman Gore on arms 
control and defense policy after Gore was assigned to the House Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence, where Mr. Fuerth was a staff member. When 
Mr. Gore was elected to the Senate in 1984, Mr. Fuerth joined his Senate 
staff as Senior Legislative Assistant for National Security. In that 
capacity, he advised Senator Gore on arms control, space policy, 
international trade, and global environmental issues.

------

https://partners.nytimes.com/library/politics/camp/042500wh-gore-fuerth.html

	President Gore's staff close enough to call him Al.

	It is Leon Sigmund Fuerth, Mr. Gore's longest-serving aide, who has acted as his elder adviser on national security matters for two decades. The two men know each other so well that, like an old married couple, they can communicate through a grimace or a glance.

	The relationship goes back to 1980, when Mr. Fuerth, a staff member on Capitol Hill, tutored the young congressman from Tennessee nine years his junior several hours a week for more than a year on the arcana of arms control. Since then Mr. Fuerth has exercised an important influence on Mr. Gore, whose world view blends a belief in a strong defense, the elevation of issues like illness and the environment to the top of the national security agenda and a moralistic impulse to punish dictators. Mr. Fuerth has often stiffened his boss's spine, from pressing early on to use strikes to constrain Serbian forces from ethnic cleansing in Bosnia and Kosovo to taking an uncompromising line against Iraq, Iran and North Korea, which Mr. Fuerth has referred to privately as "giant zits on various parts of the body." 

Did he try to start wars too?


	Yet for all his his influence, including membership in the cabinet-level Principals' Committee that advises the president on foreign policy, the onetime foreign service officer labors largely in the shadows. He rarely gives speeches or interviews. He has written no great tomes. He likes to work alone. At one point he announced at a press briefing that his goal was to remain "nameless, faceless and odorless"; at another he told aides that his ideas "belong to the vice president." 

	 Mr. Gore praises that approach as positively quaint and has hinted that he may name Mr. Fuerth as national security adviser in a Gore administration.

	"He has a keen intellect, a strong character, absolute integrity and excellent instincts," Mr. Gore said in a telephone interview. "There is a certain quaintness to his insistence on taking as little credit for anything he can possibly push off to others, quaintness in the sense not that it is odd. In fact, I wish it were more common. In today's world that quality is all too rare." 


hmmm

	Asked about Time magazine's prediction last year that Mr. Fuerth was "a cinch" to be national security adviser in a Gore administration, Mr. Gore at first stuck to his rule not to discuss potential advisers. But then he added, "If I were to break that rule for anybody, it would be for Leon." 

so Gore really likes Leon

a useful idiot?

	And there can be a downside to avoiding politics. It was Mr. Fuerth who told Mr. Gore that the much criticized fund-raising luncheon at a Buddhist temple in 1996 posed no problem from a foreign policy standpoint, instead of looking at it from a larger legal and ethical perspective. (The National Security Council, by contrast, warned that Mr. Gore should proceed with "great, great caution.") 

	Similarly, Mr. Fuerth was blamed for the politically embarrassing incident during the vice president's trip to China in 1997 in which he inadvertently shared a Champagne toast with Prime Minister Li Peng, who had orchestrated the Tiananmen massacre. Mr. Fuerth said that the toast was never supposed to happen, but that the Chinese broke their promises. 

Fuerth set Gore up to look like a Chinese stooge?

	While Mr. Gore at times has devised idealistic solutions for global problems, Mr. Fuerth tends to takes a darker view, a view that stems from a deeply rooted belief that the world is a dangerous place

well he got that right

	One "contrarian" episode came in the fall of 1995, when he opposed a proposal by Richard C. Holbrooke, the chief negotiator on Bosnia and now the American ambassador to the United Nations, to suspend most economic sanctions against Serbia on the eve of peace talks in Dayton. Mr. Fuerth arrived at a crucial White House meeting armed with fold-out charts illustrating various sanctions and why none of them should be lifted without a reciprocal action by President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia. The sanctions stayed in place. "A very creative and idiosyncratic intellect," is how Mr. Holbrooke describes Mr. Fuerth. 

why did he want sanctions on Serbia? why so hard on Serbia but bends over on Kazakhstan?

	As manager of the binational commissions that Mr. Gore created with Russia, South Africa, Egypt, Kazakhstan and Ukraine, Mr. Fuerth has tackled unconventional issues that sometimes slip through the cracks. But both he and the vice president have been criticized for being slow to accept mounting evidence from the intelligence community of the level of Russian corruption, particularly among Mr. Gore's counterparts on the bilateral commission with Russia. 

Fuerth hoping Clinton admin funds KGB

	Mr. Gore, nevertheless, relies on Mr. Fuerth for both data and analysis, which he often delivers in a constant stream of hand-written, humor-laced, policy-filled billets-doux during meetings, meals and even receiving lines. The note-passing became so disruptive during the president's cabinet meetings that protocol was abandoned and Mr. Fuerth was given a permanent seat at the vice president's immediate right. 

Fuerth and Gore giggling and passing notes

majored in Russian history

	 Some of Mr. Fuerth's colleagues in the administration speculate that he may be better suited in the job of, say, director of Central Intelligence or secretary of defense than of national security adviser, which has typically required extensive public diplomacy and the ability to compromise to get things done.

	But Mr. Fuerth has something that no other national security expert does: an intimate relationship with Mr. Gore. And Mr. Gore may just want to keep the man he calls "a great friend" close to his side, doing what he has always done -- keeping him informed, passing him notes, feeding him ideas, making him laugh and always, always giving him the credit. 

oh lord

------

http://www.ukrweekly.com/uwwp/wp-content/uploads/year_in_review/2000.pdf
aine into Euro-Atlantic structures and to maintain ties
with  Europe  and  the  United  States,  as  well  as  Russia.  He
also spoke of the need for more rapid privatization and the
elimination  of  governmental  and  non-governmental  cor
-
ruption.

Why such a rush?


------


https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-106hhrg62933/html/CHRG-106hhrg62933.htm
One of the most astonishing things that I found was that 
after Mr. Talbott was initially briefed by the Israelis in 
September or October 1996, he never once asked a question of 
our intelligence agencies until the Israelis came back and 
briefed Mr. Gore through his aide, Leon Fuerth.
    After February 1997, Mr. Talbott was tasked by Mr. Gore to 
deal with the issue directly with the Russians. For the next 6 
months he did absolutely nothing.
    He was aware. He had detailed intelligence from the 
Israelis on the names of companies and the names of individuals 
involved in the transfers to Iran of Russian missile technology 
and did nothing. He never put it at the top of his agenda. He 
never pressed the Russians or used the leverage, the very real 
leverage that we had at that time through Aid programs, and in 
particular, U.S. assistance to the Russian space programs.
    Mr. Campbell. Again, just for the sake of getting the full 
story out, if he were here, he might say he undertook a lot of 
steps, but they were not publicly known. You categorically 
state that he knew, and did nothing.
    On what do you base that judgment?
    Mr. Timmerman. For the first 3 months, I am saying between 
late 1996 and February 1997, absolutely nothing was done. This 
I have from both U.S. Government sources and from Israeli 
sources. Afterward, Mr. Talbott was tasked specifically by the 
Vice President's office and put in charge of dealing with the 
Russians on this issue. He had exchanges with the Russians, but 
he never pressed them. The reason that we know that he never 
pressed them is because it leaked out into the press in 
numerous cases of Russian transfers going to Iran. There were 
customs cases; customs officials in various countries blocked 
shipments. This came out in the press. Mr. Talbott had 
information about those shipments before they were stopped, and 
he never pressed it.
    Mr. Campbell. Thank you.


wtf is going on here


The initial information of Russian assistance to the Shahab 
Missile came from Israeli agents in 1996. The Israelis felt so 
confident of their information they presented a detailed 
briefing to Mr. Talbott in September or October 1996. Mr. 
Talbott told them not to worry, he had the situation in Russia, 
quote, ``under control.''
    When nothing happened for 3 or 4 months, the Israelis 
presented the same information in more detail to Leon Fuerth at 
the White House in late January, 1997. Mr. Fuerth briefed the 
Vice President, who was reportedly stunned to learn this. On 
February 6th, Mr. Gore raised the issue with Victor 
Chernomyrdin, who protested it was impossible that Russian 
firms were involved in such projects. He demanded that Mr. Gore 
supply him with specific information so he could investigate 
back in Moscow.


So breifed Talbot on Russia giving Iran missiles first, who did nothing, then breifed Fuerth who told Gore


 The Vice President provided what the Israelis had given to 
his aide, Mr. Fuerth. The Russians did nothing. Instead, some 
of Israel's best-placed assets on the ground in Russia went 
silent. They lost agents on the ground. Over the ensuing 
months, the Israelis met time and time again with Mr. Talbott, 
who rebuffed them every step of the way. In the meantime, 
Russia and Iran worked overtime to complete the Shahab Missile 
and roll up Russia's intelligence network.

I have given you much more detail in the written statement, 
but the crux of the matter, Mr. Chairman, is very simple. For 
nearly 2 years, despite having detailed intelligence on 
Russia's involvement with the Iranian Missile programs, the 
U.S. Government failed to press the Russians in any meaningful 
or effective way to stop it.


Interesting

Clinton useful idiot? Spy?


If we had intervened with the Russians when the Israelis 
first came to us in late 1996, the Shahab Missile would never 
have been tested successfully 2 years later. It would probably 
still, even today, be on the drawing board. Instead, not only 
have the Iranians deployed that missile, they are now working 
on a much longer-range missile, the Kosar, which is being 
disguised as a satellite launch vehicle. Both of those missiles 
are going to be powered by Russian-built and Russian-designed 
boosters. Ultimately, Russia has far more----
    Mr. Campbell. Mr. Timmerman, I am going to interrupt. The 5 
minutes is up. We have a vote pending. So I think it is fair to 
let Mr. Cannon speak for 5, at least that way he can have his 
opening statement.



Yup Congress working for the Russians


I can relate to this guy

------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/politics/2000/09/27/gore-and-foreign-policy-key-role-mixed-record/35710455-2188-4697-8ee2-108f8f6cf4b6/?utm_term=.bfda05fd1e40
	Once in office, Gore made sure he wasn't shut out of the foreign policy process by insisting that Fuerth, his top foreign policy adviser and alter ego, get a seat at the bureaucratic table, becoming the only administration official to take part in the meetings of principals--Cabinet-level officials--as well as in the meetings of their deputies, who often drew up policy options. Gore's weekly luncheons with Clinton provided another chance for the vice president to sway policy.


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leon_Fuerth
	Prior to beginning work on Capitol Hill in 1979, Fuerth spent eleven years as a foreign service officer with the State Department. His diplomatic posts included the U.S. Consulate General in Zagreb, Yugoslavia. He also worked in the office of the Counselor of the Department; the Bureau of Intelligence and Research; and in both the Bureau of Political Military Affairs and the Bureau of European Affairs in several capacities. He became a resource for strategic intelligence (chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear weapons); arms control; Soviet and Warsaw Pact affairs; and NATO.


involved with Soviet affairs, diplmat to Yugoslavia

http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/ballot_box/2002/02/iraq_now.html
	In a recent debate with echt hawk Richard Perle, Fuerth argued not that we shouldn't go to war with Iraq at all, but that we shouldn't attack Iraq just yet. 


Fuerth wants to attack Iraq

http://www.nytimes.com/2002/01/04/opinion/one-terrorist-at-a-time.html
or not?

	Saddam Hussein is dangerous and likely to become more so. He may well possess stocks of biological weapons that escaped both the bombardments of the Persian Gulf war and the subsequent investigations by United Nations inspectors. He is trying to rebuild his capacity to make weapons of mass destruction as the United Nations sanctions system -- intended to keep military supplies from entering Iraq -- grows ever more porous. He has demonstrated more than enough ruthlessness for us to credit him with the will to use weapons of mass destruction.

Or yes?

He's basically making the argument to attack Saddam without agreeing with it


https://forwardengagement.org/
	Forward Engagement ® is a process of thinking systematically about complex, interactive, and longer-range issues in a way that is applicable to public policy. That application has evolved into the concept of “Anticipatory Governance:” a systems-based approach for enabling governance to cope with accelerating, complex forms of change.

	The Project on Forward Engagement was established in 2001 by Leon Fuerth to explore methods for incorporating systematic foresight into the US federal policy process, and for configuring government systems to deal with challenges that are “complex” (rather than just “complicated”). Through a graduate course (taught 2001-2010, 2013) at the George Washington University and expert seminars in Washington, DC, the project explored ways that government can organize itself to engage the future sooner, rather than later.


I bet he teaches esparanto too


http://washingtonmonthly.com/2005/09/18/final-entry/

"Many thanks to Kevin Drum"

hmmmm


-------

Fuerths Russia speech:

http://www.russialist.org/archives/4428.html


	With the fall of Soviet Communism, Russia was forced to undergo a wrenching transformation encompassing three revolutions at once: 

	a political revolution, from Communism to democracy; 


WRONG


	a geopolitical revolution, from an imperial state to a federation surrounded by newly-independent nations. 


WRONG


	There was hunger in Russia such that emergency international food assistance was necessary.


http://uselessdissident.blogspot.com/2008/11/interview-with-yuri-bezmenov.html "As long as the Soviet junta [keeps] on receiving credits, money, technology, grain deals, and political recognition, from all these traitors of democracy or freedom, there is no hope"


	The Russian people had been thrust almost overnight from the certitudes of the Soviet state into conditions of chaos, both material and moral. 


Then why did he want "rapid privitization" in Ukraine


	a nuclear superpower unable to protect even these assets from theft, or from the outright sale of knowledge by scientists, too desperate in the present to be guided anymore by concerns for the longer-term future. 


WRONG

already ran the U.S. by that point apparently


	From the outset, this strategy -- and the policies and programs we developed 
to execute it -- was controversial. Some of that controversy was based on 
legitimate differences in points of view. But much of it, unfortunately, 
simply reflected the vehement brand of political partisanship that overtook 
our country in those years. It also reflected an attitude about Russia on the 
part of some that bordered on a kind of historical fatalism, on the view that 
at some level Russia was immutably antithetical to democracy and to us, so 
that a policy based on the premise that nations can redirect their histories 
would seem to be light-headed romanticism. 


WRONG


	failing to insist that Russia develop all of the laws and institutions needed 
to run a modern economy, before it began to dismantle the Soviet economy 
through privatization. 
turning a blind-eye to corruption as it spread through Russian society and 
government. 


again why call for rapid privitization in Ukraine then


	But it became clear early on that much as we might wish in a perfect world to see Russia set al these things in place before privatization, privatization would in fact have to take place ready or not. Because privatization was the one sure way to break away from the past. 

wait some kind of excuse for rapid privitization

wtf was going on here

seemed like Russia wanted to destroy themselves using U.S.-based spies to set-up Putin?

like what's up with Larry Summers?

	Had we adopted a "go-slow" approach to privatization, as some critics 
advocate, we would have given the Communists leverage to maintain state 
control and further retard the development of a free market. Ironically, many 
who advocated this alternative have taken aim over and over again at the 
programs most needed for institution building.

sounds defensive about his privitization policies that involved some strange IMF and wall street deals or something

	The truth about the IMF is that it has consistently pursued a prudent, responsible, and 
forward-thinking lending program for Russia. Where there have been concerns 
about Russian practices, the Fund has tightened control, required audits and 
reduced lending. The IMF has conditioned further lending on the 
implementation of effective financial safeguards and accounting measures. 
Supporting Russia's economic transformation is not risk free and certainly 
has had its share of rude shocks -- but the IMF and the other international 
financial institutions keep working to reduce these risks without breaking 
off their operations, which are vital. 

defending funding corruption?

	Over-personalization. Boris Yeltsin was the duly elected president of the 
Russian Federation for about eight years.

WRONG

he goes on to defend the Bi-National Commission


Speech July 25 2000


https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-106hhrg62933/html/CHRG-106hhrg62933.htm
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1999

Russia fucking around with missiles, "alarming," Fuerth breifed directly Oct 6, 1999


------

http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/politics/campaigns/wh2000/stories/gore082799.htm
	New revelations about Russian money laundering through a major U.S. bank have presented Vice President Gore with a potentially difficult campaign issue, and once again illustrated the pitfalls of running for the White House from the vice president's chair.

	A criminal investigation into charges that Russian mobsters and politicians may have laundered money -- including diverted international aid funds -- through accounts at the Bank of New York has revived a long-standing debate in Washington over whether the Clinton administration has given too much support to a Russian government known to be plagued by corruption.


uhh wtf

	The Gore team has responded to the emerging issue with uncharacteristic speed, offering one of the most detailed accounts to date of the vice president's conversations with Russian leaders about the country's crime problems. At the same time, aides have stressed that Gore, although touted as the "most involved vice president in history," had no idea federal investigators were looking into allegations that the Bank of New York laundered billions for Russian criminals, including some with close connections to the government of President Boris Yeltsin.

	"With respect to stories about the Bank of New York, the vice president would not have been aware of it," said Leon S. Fuerth, Gore's top national security adviser. "He learned of it reading the newspapers."

uh-huh

	Though no one has charged that Gore knew of the financial diversions, the still-emerging money laundering scandal has tendrils that could run close to the vice president. One of the Russians suspected of having engineered the diversion of millions of dollars through the New York accounts, Konstantin Kagalovsky, was Russia's representative to the International Monetary Fund from 1992 to 1995 at a time the Clinton administration was deeply involved in IMF lending to Russia. Chernomyrdin, Kagalovsky's boss and Gore's partner in the bilateral commission from 1993 until last year, has been the target of numerous allegations of corruption, some compiled by Western intelligence agencies.

So Gore buddied-up with a corrupt Russian guy

	 Forbes, who plans to talk regularly on the campaign trail about the Russian economic crisis, said Gore long ignored warning signs that the country was in grave trouble.

	"It's long been in the papers that tens of millions of Russians are not being paid; it's long been known billions are being siphoned off," Forbes said. "This is nothing new and yet they keep shoveling billions of IMF money into a government that misuses it and into a government that doesn't pay its workers."

Did Gore help fund the KGB or something?

	 Fuerth said that Gore never met Kagalovsky and had long pressed Russian leaders to reform. The subject of organized crime in Russia "has come up on a number of occasions through the [bilateral] commission," he said, noting that Gore "went out of his way to make sure the Russians participated" in a global conference on crime and corruption held in late February at the State Department.

	"On many other occasions, the vice president has talked about the need to get a grip on this," Fuerth added.


------

http://www.larouchepub.com/other/1999/2625gore_v_russia.html
	Gore and his Wall Street backers have been gunning for Primakov ever since: Capitol Hill sources have told EIR that Vice President Gore's longtime national security adviser, Leon Fuerth, had been "bad-mouthing" Primakov at every opportunity, in early 1999.

Some Russian propaganda peice accusing Gore of sinking Russia with wall street

something weird going on here


------


https://www.brookings.edu/opinions/russia-report-seeks-blunders-ignores-progress/

	If this is an “objective” report, give us subjectivity any day. House Democrats were not even invited to the group’s meetings, much less asked to contribute to the report. Given both its partisan origins and its publication in the midst of the presidential campaign, the report sheds more heat than light on this critically important foreign-policy issue.

	In its effort to tie all the problems in Russia to Vice President Al Gore, the Cox report makes the preposterous claim that President Clinton handed off America’s Russia policy to three high-level officials—Gore, then-Ambassador at Large Strobe Talbott and then-Treasury Under Secretary Larry Summers—and paid little attention to an area of fundamental concern to the United States.

what's going on here? This talking about the hearing regarding Iran missiles and such?


https://web.archive.org/web/20100208103744/http://imperialvalleynews.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=4420&Itemid=2
	"President-elect Obama was fortunate to have the benefit of Mike's counsel on a range of vital issues during the campaign—including dealing with a resurgent Russia," said Freeman Spogli Institute Director Coit D. Blacker, the Olivier Nomellini Professor in International Studies. "Now, from the White House, the president can call on Mike's expertise and experience in the region to build more constructive relationships with Russia, Eurasia and our allies across a broad strategic front." 

uhh what

http://www.hoover.org/sites/default/files/fw_hoover_foreign_policy_working_group_unconventional_threat_essay_series/201411%20-%20Blacker.pdf

sounds like Russian propaganda "but wait here is Russia's point of view" and "Russia is small and weak, bad economy, low population, nothing to worry about," also "Hillary Clinton meddled in Russian elections"

	Perhaps understood in this context, the only real surprise in all the recent drama is how long it has taken the Russian leadership to get to this point.

hmmm


Bio on Blacker:

https://www.philanthropyforum.org/people/coit-d-blacker/
	Since 1998, he has served as co-director of the Aspen Institute’s U.S.-Russia Dialogue, which twice each year brings together prominent American and Russian specialists on foreign and defense policy for discussion and review of critical issues in U.S.-Russian relations.

sounds like some kind of KGB front


So blacker likes McFaul:


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_McFaul
	A Hoover Institution Peter and Helen Bing Senior Fellow, McFaul is a Democrat who was the architect of U.S. President Barack Obama's policy on Russia.

	...In 2009, McFaul joined the Barack Obama administration as a senior adviser in Washington, D.C., where he was the architect of the so-called "Russian reset" policy. 

I don't like McFaul

	The visitors to Michael McFaul included: Yevgeniya Chirikova (member of Strategy-31 and Khimki forest activist leader), Boris Nemtsov (leader of the People's Freedom Party), Lev Ponomarev (human rights activist of the Moscow Helsinki Group), Sergey Mitrokhin (leader of Yabloko party), Oksana Dmitriyeva (deputy head of A Just Russia), Lilia Shibanova (head of the GOLOS Association elections monitor group).[15] Leonid Kalashnikov from the Communist Party of the Russian Federation also attended. 

hmmm


------


https://www.brookings.edu/opinions/russia-report-seeks-blunders-ignores-progress/
	The most serious charge levied by the Cox report is that the United States in effect compelled the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to provide billions of dollars in “unconditional” loans to the Russian government. But contrary to the report’s claim, the IMF loans were always conditioned on Russia’s undertaking certain kinds of reforms and meeting certain explicit “targets,” which is why disbursements were often held up and why there has been no new lending since 1998.

So did the Clinton admin fund Russian oligarchs via the IMF or something?

	Most important for the United States, the American people are safer and more secure because of this administration’s Russia policy. Because of our cooperation with leaders in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Belarus, we face 5,000 fewer nuclear warheads and almost 500 fewer missiles than we did a decade ago. Of the four nuclear-armed countries that emerged from the wreckage of the Soviet Union, today only one—the Russian federation?still has nuclear weapons.

lol


-----

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_Chechen_War
	The Second Chechen War was an invasion launched by the Russian Federation, starting 26 August 1999, in response to the Invasion of Dagestan by the Islamic International Brigade (IIB).


So Russia invades Cechnya, gives Iran missiles, then Feurth is out their trying to fund them and giving speeches defending himself and talking about how great U.S> Russia relations are


------

https://www.brookings.edu/opinions/russia-report-seeks-blunders-ignores-progress/
	We would be the last to claim that every move the Clinton-Gore team made regarding Russia was the right one. In foreign policy, outcomes are always mixed. Moreover, strategies that produced results at the beginning of the decade may no longer be appropriate today. With the change in administration in both Russia and the United States this year, now is the right time to have an open discussion about the new agenda in U.S.-Russian relations.

	This is why the Cox report is such a disappointment. Rather than a bipartisan, forward-looking assessment of the lessons learned in U.S.-Russian relations, the report seeks to score political points by portraying the administration’s efforts as colossal blunders. The record suggests otherwise.

so Blacker dislikes the Cox report, calls it partisan, but is clearly trying to cover for "mistakes" made by Gore

------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cox_Report

Wikipedia says Cox report on China stealing U.S. nuclear secrets...
"Russia" not even mentioned

http://articles.latimes.com/2000/sep/20/news/mn-24013
	House Republican leaders accused Vice President Al Gore and other officials Tuesday of mismanaging U.S. relations with Russia, with results ranging from the collapse of the Russian economy to the spread of government corruption and organized crime.

	In a 209-page report, a GOP panel chaired by Rep. Christopher Cox of Newport Beach said the administration used U.S. aid to subsidize Russia's central government at the expense of grass-roots efforts to build a free market economy.

	"Our political capital and goodwill has been misspent, indeed squandered," Cox said in an interview. "The Russians have every right to be unhappy with where they've ended up."

	Democrats dismissed the report as election-year politics. "Coming so close to election time . . . it raises questions about why an important foreign policy issue is being done in such a partisan manner," White House spokesman Joe Lockhart said.

politicizing it as usual

	The report charges that the Clinton administration's policies toward Russia were doomed by "fundamental flaws . . . a strong preference for strengthening Russia's central government rather than deconstructing the Soviet state and building from scratch a system of free enterprise; [and] a close personal association with a few Russian officials, even after they became corrupt."

	It says the administration was responsible for the 1998 collapse of Russia's economy, because it failed to press for free market reforms.

	The Cox panel blames three officials (dubbed "the troika" in the report) for the problems: Gore, Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott and Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers.

	The report charges that Gore made a serious error by working closely with Russian Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, who has been widely accused of corruption. "In this way, the Clinton Administration--and Gore personally--contributed not only to Russia's failure to overcome corruption, but to the spread of corruption throughout the Russian political system," the report says.

	Gore aides have said that the charges against Chernomyrdin were unproven and that the vice president had no choice but to deal with the Russian prime minister.

	"We have worked very diligently over the last eight years to engage the Russians, to try to promote democracy and to make the world a safer place," Lockhart said.

So Gore et al. funded corrupt Russian officials


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/opinions/2000/09/24/the-bs-factor/b4d3a398-ee17-4ad6-b91e-557fdb062af8/?utm_term=.1de1b302f458
	By Jim Hoagl

	When Republicans launched a partisan broadside against Al Gore for his dealings with Russia this past week, they erected a weak pillar to support their most damaging charge: Gore kept himself "deliberately uninformed" about corruption and other problems that would have undermined Bill Clinton's Russia policies.

	The specifics in the report of a House GOP group headed by Rep. Christopher Cox do not prove that assertion. They do portray Gore and his national security adviser, Leon Fuerth, giving confusing and at times seemingly contradictory explanations of what the vice president was told about Russian corruption and when he was told it.

"deliberately kept in the dark" making it sound like Gore was a Russian agent?

he did politicize global warming

	But like any campaign document, the Cox report goes for the jugular. It suggests that Gore sought to intimidate the CIA into not reporting on evidence of corruption involving Chernomyrdin and other Russian officials. Exhibit A, and the weak reed Cox leans on, is the "BS" memo.

interesting

saying Gore was breifed on Russian corruption but ignored it

	Fuerth told me of the CIA search finding no annotated document at almost the same time on July 24 that Gore spoke to the Globe. Gore's office says Fuerth had not had a chance to tell Gore of the CIA conclusion. On the BS factor, I think Gore either mispoke or was a victim of timing.


------


https://books.google.com/books?id=nn5a3kEjSBwC&pg=PA21848&lpg=PA21848&dq=cox+report+Fuerth+Russia&source=bl&ots=J322ijXzKt&sig=6E5kW3g40DZzHKclfAe8lnSpEEs&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwilmvPRiabUAhVFSyYKHfmYD3oQ6AEIJTAB#v=onepage&q=cox%20report%20Fuerth%20Russia&f=false

What was Feurth up to here?

saying Feurth could have leveraged Kazakstan dictatorship to be a democracy, but did nothing

by Washington Times Amos Perlmutter


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_the_Cox_Report_controversy
	Sometime in April, Vice President Al Gore's national security advisor Leon Fuerth was informed about the PRC's nuclear espionage at America's weapons laboratories. Some documents showed he may have been informed as early as 1995, though Fuerth did not recall a briefing then. Fuerth did not mention the espionage to Gore until March 1999.

------

https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/GPO-CRPT-105hrpt851/pdf/GPO-CRPT-105hrpt851.pdf

Fuerth not mentioned in Cox report? huh?

Gore not mentioned?


------

https://www.rferl.org/a/1094418.html

	The man who may be the next White House national security adviser says the West can help Russian President Vladimir Putin fight corruption in his country. But he says the job ultimately must be done by the Moscow government itself. Washington correspondent Andrew F. Tully reports.

	Washington, 26 July 2000 (RFE/RL) - The national security adviser to U.S. Vice President Al Gore says the American government is doing everything it can to help Moscow fight corruption in Russia.

	But the adviser, Leon Fuerth, emphasized that the U.S. and other Western countries can only help. The prime responsibility for fighting corruption, he said, lies with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

HOWS THAT WORKING OUT FOR YOU

	Fuerth said he and Gore are concerned about Putin's record since he took over the presidency from Boris Yeltsin on Jan. 1. He said Putin's ideas of a strong Russia are "contradictory and sometimes ominous." He said the war in Chechnya could become a "second Afghanistan." He decried Putin's restrictions on the news media.

	The adviser to Gore said Moscow has much to do to improve economic relations with the West in general and the U.S. in particular. This includes reforming the Russian judiciary, updating tax laws, passing the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty, adopting Western accounting practices, and reforming its banking system.

	But overall, Fuerth endorsed Putin's economic plan.

	"His program is a program of vigorous economic reform along lines that we ourselves would have advocated -- and in fact did advocate it from the beginning of our close association with the Russian government. His program -- if it is carried out -- offers the single greatest hope for the rebirth of the Russian economy under conditions that are compatible with political freedom."

Fuerth thinks Putin is dreamy

	Still, Fuerth said he remains deeply troubled about the war in Chechnya. He said the Clinton administration has pressed Putin's government to seek a diplomatic solution to Chechens' desire for independence. And he said the only way the current Russian government can hope to maintain legitimacy is to seriously investigate accusations that its forces have committed atrocities against civilians in the breakaway republic.


------

http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/WPcap/2000-01/05/049r-010500-idx.html
	 "This is a time of great uncertainty in Russian politics," said Michael A. McFaul, senior associate on Russian politics at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. McFaul compared the situation to that of 1992, when, in his judgment, then-Secretary of State James A. Baker III was effectively running President George Bush's reelection campaign and domestic political distractions kept the United States from adequately helping Russia's new leaders, who then included genuine reformers.

	"We dropped the ball at a crucial time," McFaul said. "What scares me about the political situation is that no one can say a good thing about Russia during the U.S. campaign, and it could be a disaster if we prejudge this guy."

what

	 Texas Gov. George W. Bush (R) also voiced concern about Putin. "I'm troubled by the fact that Mr. Putin has gained popularity as a result of Chechnya," Bush said in Manchester, N.H. But he added, "I'm hopeful that he will lead his country to substantive and real reforms."

	By contrast, Gore has been restrained on the subject of Russia's new leader, congratulating him and urging greater cooperation. "The vice president's position on Putin is essentially waiting for further indications of where Putin is going to go and how he's going to manage himself in this new situation," said Leon Fuerth, Gore's national security adviser.

Fuerth apparently trying to convince Gore to "take a chance" on Putin

	 While the Clinton administration has sharply criticized Russia's campaign in Chechnya, Clinton and Gore have opposed linking IMF funding to the war. Although Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright had suggested tying one Ex-Im loan to Chechnya, the administration did nothing to block that loan last week.

	"For us to start doing this war dance is crazy in terms of the interests of the United States," said a Gore aide. Arguing that Gore's approach is "based on a lot of experience, whereas the others' experience is abstract," the aide charged that the other candidates are "too eager to cut ties, make breaks, show anger and embitter a relationship before you even get started."

Clinton funding massacring Chechnya, Gore wants to be friends with Putin

	McFaul speculated that Putin's endorsement of the START II arms control treaty after the Russian parliamentary elections in December might have been a message to the West. "It was the first thing he said after the election," McFaul noted. "They wanted to make signal to the West: It's a mess in Chechnya, but I see the long term with you."

and Obama brought on this guy? wtf?

	A senior U.S. policymaker on Russia said dealing with Putin is different from dealing with Boris Yeltsin in 1992, when Yeltsin was still a relatively new Russian president: "Though we didn't know Yeltsin well, there was an expectation that our interests were going to be congruent on all issues."

Yeltsin was a ruse!

	On Monday, McCain said: "You reach a point where you have to take a stand on certain issues, and I believe that a tacit acceptance of what the Russians are doing has worse long-term consequences than making it clear to them that there is a price to pay. It's terribly disturbing to see how Mr. Putin trod this path to power. It was through Chechnya. A year ago, nobody had heard of Putin. Now, he orchestrates this incredibly brutal offensive in Chechnya and the popularity of his government skyrockets." 

McCain has been doing this forever

------

http://www.nytimes.com/2000/10/13/world/despite-a-secret-pact-by-gore-in-95-russian-arms-sales-to-iran-go-on.html

	In June 1995, Vice President Al Gore signed a secret agreement with Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, then the Russian prime minister, calling for an end to all Russian sales of conventional weapons to Iran by the end of 1999.

	But the deadline passed with no sign of a halt to such sales, despite repeated complaints late last year and this year to senior Russian officials by Mr. Gore, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott. Moscow continues to be a significant supplier of conventional arms to Tehran despite the Gore-Chernomyrdin deal, the Central Intelligence Agency reported in August.

	The 1995 agreement allowed Moscow to fulfill existing sales contracts for specified weaponry, including a diesel submarine, torpedoes, anti-ship mines and hundreds of tanks and armored personnel carriers. But no other weapons were to be sold to Iran, and all shipments were to have been completed by last Dec. 31.

	In exchange for the Russian promises, the United States pledged not to seek penalties against Russia under a 1992 law that requires sanctions against countries that sell advanced weaponry to countries the State Department classifies as state sponsors of terrorism. Iran is on that list.

Is Russia not on that list?

	The Gore-Chernomyrdin agreement appeared to undercut a 1992 law, the Iran-Iraq Arms Nonproliferation Act, known as Gore-McCain after its principal sponsors, Mr. Gore, then a senator from Tennessee, and Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican. The law was rooted in concerns about Russian sales to Iran of some of the same weapons that the Gore-Chernomyrdin agreement expressly allowed.


Gore secretly breaking law to let Russia sell weapons to Iran

	Mr. Gore's chief foreign policy adviser, Leon Fuerth, said the deliveries were not subject to sanctions because they did not meet the 1992 act's definition of ''advanced conventional weapons'' and did not significantly change the balance of power in the Persian Gulf. But, he said, Mr. Gore brandished the threat as leverage to induce the Russians to sign the agreement, in part to learn more about what arms Moscow was sending to Tehran.

Great fucking deal bravo

	''We deliberately used the Gore-McCain law as a fulcrum to negotiate an understanding with Russia to put constraints on their exports to Iran,'' Mr. Fuerth said, by setting a cut-off date of Dec. 31, 1999.

	Strengthening the lever was the submarine being supplied, the third of three Kilo-class subs that Russia sold to Iran. The sub was of particular concern to American policymakers because it can be hard to detect and could pose a threat to oil tankers or American warships in the gulf.

	Mr. Gore and Mr. McCain specifically cited the submarine and its deadly long-range torpedoes as one reason the 1992 nonproliferation act was needed, according to the Congressional Research Service.

	Mr. Fuerth acknowledged that Russia had failed to meet its promise to end deliveries by Dec. 31. ''We have indicated we are not satisfied with a unilateral decision by the Russians to modify the terms of this understanding,'' he said.

So Fuerth breaks law to let Russia sell weapons to Iran, and his "leverage" afterwards is to "indicate we are not satisfied"

	Some critics in Congress, as well as Governor George W. Bush's foreign policy advisers, say that Mr. Gore placed too much faith in his close personal relationship with Mr. Chernomyrdin, and that this led Mr. Gore to turn a blind eye to strong evidence of corruption by Mr. Chernomyrdin and associates, who appear to have profited handsomely from the rapid privatization of Soviet state enterprises.

So was Gore an idiot the whole time, letting this happen? he does seem like an idiot

http://www.wnd.com/2017/03/al-gore-climate-change-helped-cause-brexit/
	Al Gore: Climate change helped cause Brexit

yup



http://www.nytimes.com/2000/10/13/world/despite-a-secret-pact-by-gore-in-95-russian-arms-sales-to-iran-go-on.html
	The vice president and his advisers respond that the Gore-Chernomyrdin channel produced scores of agreements on a wide range of topics in part because of the strong bond between the men. Mr. Gore was fully aware of the allegations of corruption against Mr. Chernomyrdin, Mr. Fuerth said, but he also believed that the prime minister was dedicated to reform and had the clout to cut through the bureaucracy.

Gore got played? or was a Russian spy all along?

	The vice president's office has produced a catalog of Mr. Gore's achievements in Russia policy: the removal of nuclear weapons from Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan, trade deals on steel and poultry, diversion of Russian weapons scientists to peaceful pursuits, increased cooperation on corruption and money-laundering, joint efforts on the international space station.


So Fuerth and Gore got nukes out of Ukraine so Putin could invade?

	And the 1995 accord, which essentially exempted Russia from American sanctions on arms deliveries to Iran, emboldened Moscow to ignore other agreements, particularly on sales of missile and nuclear technology to Iran, according to Gordon C. Oehler, who directed the Nonproliferation Center of the Central Intelligence Agency until he retired in 1998.

	''It was one more of these strange deals that Gore and Chernomyrdin had that were kept from people,'' said Mr. Oehler, now a vice president with the Science Applications International Corporation in La Jolla, Calif. ''If this had been disclosed to Congress, the committees would have gone berserk, absolutely. But the larger problem is, if you have these under-the-table deals that give the Russians permission to do these things, it gives the signal that it's O.K. to do other things.''

	The 1995 arms agreement between Mr. Gore and Mr. Chernomyrdin was just one of more than a dozen during a three-day meeting in Moscow, the fifth session of the Gore-Chernomyrdin Commission, but it was not included in a list of accords released by the White House.

like they were trying to hide it? what gives?

	'This is significant, very significant,'' Mr. Gore said at the news conference. ''I would say that this has been resolved in a specific, mutually agreed fashion that does not leave any uncertainty or open ends that would create problems.''

	But no specific reference was made to a 12-paragraph document the men had signed, where the final paragraph reads, ''This aide-memoire, as well as the attached annexes, will remain strictly confidential.''

	Such undertakings between executive branch officials do not carry the force of law or treaty, which require legislative ratification; either party can unilaterally withdraw from executive agreements without notice or penalty, an aide to Mr. Gore said.

he sounds almost as dumb as Trump

	Russia was to sign no new arms contracts with Iran and was to deliver no weapons other than those specified.

	The United States, for its part, would ''take appropriate steps to avoid any penalties to Russia that might otherwise arise under domestic law with respect to the completion of the transfers,'' the document states.

	The United States also said it would help Russia join international arms-trading organizations and would take steps to remove Russia from the list of countries ineligible to receive American arms or technical assistance.

	The United States would also help Russia's weapons industry find customers. And the United States would ensure that its own customers in the Middle East would not transfer American-made weapons to countries on the borders of Russia. Moscow was concerned that Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern buyers of American arms were sending some on to Islamic fundamentalists in the Central Asian republics of the former Soviet Union.

	Members of Congress have repeatedly complained about Russian arms shipments to Iran and demanded that the administration seek sanctions against Moscow.


If this happened with Trump he would be crucified


Maybe that's the joke? he just fawns over Putin while destroying U.S. faith and credibility, while not making nearly as any shady deals with Russia as previous administrations (as far as I can tell).

that and Russia installed him, maybe funded his businesses or something

Congress was upset that the Clinton administration was working for Russia

	Because of frustration with the administration's apparent unwillingness to penalize Russia, Congress amended Gore-McCain in 1996. The new law required sanctions for any supplier of arms to nations that sponsor terrorism, not just weapons sales that upset regional stability, as specified in the 1992 law. But the new law has not been invoked, administration officials said, because sanctions laws cannot be applied retroactively.

------

http://www.bits.de/NRANEU/docs/fuerth.pdf
	Things are now radically different. The Cold War is over; Russia is too weak to be a threat; and, besides, relations with it are basically good.

--Leon Furth, Fall 2001


	Therefore,  the  levels  and  kinds  of  nuclear  weapons  available  to  the
United States and to Russia are no longer reasons for mutual fear. In view
of this, the United States and Russia should stop trying to regulate their
strategic nuclear weapons by way of explicit, formal agreements and in-
stead rely on “understandings” informally worked out and not legally
binding. Both sides would be free to shape their nuclear forces as they
please; political and economic realism will assure that this translates into
spontaneous deep reductions all around.

wtf


	Perhaps, in time, the U.S. government can persuade Russia to accept its word that
U.S. defenses are not intended to be a threat. But if not, the United
States should be prepared to pull out of the ABM Treaty. Doing so will
produce  no  untoward  consequences  for
the security of the United States. Russia
cannot afford very impressive countermea-
sures. Russia has threatened that, if the
United States pulls out of the ABM Treaty,
Russia  will  pull  out  of  all  existing  arms
control agreements, but the United States
can  discount  that  as  bluster.  But  if  this
warning turns out to be real, the United
States  is  better  off  without  such  agree-
ments in any event and, therefore, can dis-
pense with them.

why did Fuerth want the U.S. to pull out of the ABM treaty?


------

https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CREC-2001-05-02/html/CREC-2001-05-02-pt1-PgH1842.htm
	General Koltunov looked at me and he said, ``Congressman Weldon, you 
are asking that question of the wrong person. We didn't propose to 
multilateralize the treaty. The person sitting next to you did.'' 
Meaning that our government was trying to push the Russian government 
into expanding the treaty to include three former Soviet states. Why 
would you do that especially when none of those three countries had 
long range missiles, unless your purpose was to make the ABM treaty 
more difficult to modify?

What's going on here?

	The second question dealt with demarcation. I could not understand 
how we could negotiate with the Russians an artificial differentiation 
between a theater missile defense system for a given area and a 
national missile defense with longer range. So I said to the chief 
Russian negotiator, General Koltunov, ``General, explain to me, how did 
you arrive at these numbers of interceptor speed and range?'' If I am 
in a small country like Israel, a theater program like THAAD is a 
national program to Israel because it can cover their entire territory. 
In America, a program like THAAD would not be a national missile 
defense because it could not cover all of our territory. ``How did you 
determine the difference?''
  General Koltunov told me, after thinking for a few moments, ``Well, 
Congressman, there were serious negotiations between our scientists and 
your scientists, and they arrived at these numbers.'' But he did not 
give me any justification. Well, I was not satisfied. I came back to 
the United States. We concluded those negotiations in Geneva. President 
Clinton sent the signal to Russia that America was supportive of 
tightening up the ABM treaty. So the Russians again for the third time 
took us at our word. But the Clinton administration knew, Madam 
Speaker, they could not get either of those two changes to the treaty 
through the U.S. Senate, even though the U.S. Constitution requires any 
substantive change to any treaty to be submitted to the Senate for 
advice and consent.
  For 3 years, from 1997 to the year 2000, actually to the year 2001 
because that is today, until the end of the Clinton administration, the 
administration failed to submit either of those two changes to the ABM 
treaty to the Senate as required by our Constitution so the Senate 
could debate them. I am convinced the reason the administration did not 
do that was because they knew that neither one of them would pass the 
Senate. They could not even get a majority of Democrats in the Senate 
to support those two changes. They were not in America's best 
interests. So for 3 years, the Russians had been convinced by Clinton 
that we were supportive of tightening up the ABM treaty, even though 
the administration knew the Senate and the American people would not 
support those changes

why?

	`No way are we going to pass the START II treaty.''
  So the Russians for the third time saw America going back on what 
they thought was our word. Three times in 8 years we sent mixed signals 
to Russia about missile defense. It is no wonder that the Russians do 
not understand what America's real intentions are in terms of missile 
defense. Now, they understand my intentions, because I have a good 
solid relationship with them. They know that I want us to be involved 
with Russia. The Russians know that we want to be partners with them. 
We want to find common ground.

Who's this guy?


Anyway getting a sense that they wanted the U.S. to fuck with these treaties, pull out of ABM treaty to give an excuse for Russian aggression?


http://www.bits.de/NRANEU/docs/fuerth.pdf

	The United States’ allies are extremely nervous about all this and are
very  reluctant  to  give  the  United  States  their  cooperation.  But  the
United States can eventually persuade them to give up their reservations
and to come along with it. Washington will have to promise them protec-
tion from ballistic missiles under a U.S. or a joint defensive shield. Honor-
ing  that  commitment  will  require  that  the  United  States  explore
technologies and systems that cannot in any way be reconciled with the
basic logic of the ABM Treaty, but the allies will value that promise more
than they value the existing system of arms control. Besides, in the last
analysis, what choice do they have?

hmmm


	On the other hand, building ballistic missile defenses would better prepare the United States for a confrontation with China over Taiwan.

or Russia? does he hear himself?

always the same thing, "we have to PREPARE FOR WAR with country X," but X is never Russia

Fuerth wants to go to war in space

wait a minute what is Fuerth actually saying


	Second, there is eagerness, even zeal, to be rid of the ABM Treaty long before the workability of an elaborate defense system can be estimated, much less demonstrated

So Fuerth actually wanted to keep the ABM treaty?

but Bush wanted to get rid of it, and he was also a useful idiot..

not really sure what's going on here

	Fifth, there is a naïve model of history that sees the United States and Russia as having attained durable friendship, and a very dangerous corollary that fatalistically accepts China as the next great threat

now Fuerth makes more sense, although this might play into "gore is secretly a chinese agent" theories


I wonder if all this talk about "game theory" and fancy analysis for 3D geopolitical thermonuclear chess is just a way to waste everybody's time and get the U.S. scared of Russian nukes


------


http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2000/07/31/gore-without-a-script
	Gore asked a group of his friends to set up a series of seminars for him, like the arms-control seminars with Leon Fuerth, only much more ambitious, with big-time thinkers, such as the economists Kenneth Arrow and Brian Arthur, flying to Washington to brief him. Up one level! By the end of it, Gore had a new, sweeping view of the world and its prospects. His main interest had noticeably shifted, from arms control to global warming, but the setup was familiar: mankind was in a morally dire situation of its own making, which could be solved through a combination of analytic mastery, spiritual guidance, and the use of technology in healthy ways instead of unhealthy ones.

And then made everything worse...
