http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/russia/1308872/Email-from-Russia.html
	So were the comments really a brief act of madness, an unfortunate indiscretion in the heat of the moment? No, they weren't. Challenged over his remarks later - and after the Kremlin attempt at damage control - GenTroshev set the record straight.

	He was speaking in a private capacity, naturally. But public executions would indeed work as a deterrent and, anyway, no one ever knows for sure whether sentences are actually carried out. "I am not calling for everybody to be executed," he clarified.


so didn't really "call" for public executions (publicly, anyway)


	...The blind spot is all the more terrifying because, although born in post-war Berlin, the young Gennady was brought up in Grozny and, as we learn from the book, his sister, granny, aunt and uncle were buried there.


Interesting

did he really want Grozny never rebuilt?


what wikipedia tries to cite I think:

http://www.irishtimes.com/news/chechen-war-veteran-flexes-political-muscles-sending-shiver-down-the-spine-of-the-kremlin-1.345278
	RUSSIA: Another Russian general has emerged who wants to be a politician - a man who left his mark on Chechnya by helping raze its capital city. Chris Stephen reports from Moscow


this the author?

https://muckrack.com/chris-stephen


------


Chris Stephen seems like Russian spy

http://www.irishtimes.com/news/chechen-war-veteran-flexes-political-muscles-sending-shiver-down-the-spine-of-the-kremlin-1.345278
	RUSSIA: Another Russian general has emerged who wants to be a politician - a man who left his mark on Chechnya by helping raze its capital city. Chris Stephen reports from Moscow

	Russia has a new pretender to the crown of warrior-king in the shape of Gen Gennady Troshev, its former commander in Chechnya. The bull-necked 57-year-old hit the headlines last month when he refused an order from the defence ministry to step down and move to another post in Siberia.


Putin unhappy, wants to exile Troshev to Siberia?

author makes it sound like Troshev was defiant

	Angry that the ministry was blaming him for the manifest failures of the Chechen war, he went on television to denounce his sacking order. His dismissal as commander of the forces in Chechnya was later confirmed by special decree from President Vladimir Putin - though the requirement to move to Siberia was quietly dropped.

	Instead, Troshev has moved to Moscow, declaring he is "considering" a political career.

or decides not to exile to Siberia after all

"blamed for failures"-- could Troshev have stolen the thunder of Putin?

Putin tried to use Chechan war to boost popularity, allegedly

	This has made many people shudder, as it comes with reports that the army is already beyond the power of its civilian masters to control.


Army beyond FSB control

	...He is not the first general to try this path. In 1994 the deputy chief- of-staff, Eduard Vorobyov, refused to take up command of Russian forces in the first Chechen war, instead becoming an MP. Alexander Lebed, a former paratrooper general, stood against Putin in the 2000 presidential elections.

	Neither made an impact: Vorobyov failed to attract a large following and the charismatic Lebed's political career died when he was killed in a helicopter crash last year.


trying to point out futility in opposing Putin?

	Troshev aims to go better: already, he has powerful allies in the high command, notably army chief- of-staff Anatoly Kvashnin. Their complaints are familiar: first, that the army has been starved of support, both political and financial, to smash rebels in Chechnya and second, that under corrupt and incompetent civilian leadership, Russia has lost her great power status - and needs to claw it back.


"civilian leadership"

Anatoly Kvashnin opposes Putin too?

	...An official on Putin's Human Rights Commission, Svetlana Gamushkina, told The Irish Times that the President admitted he could not control the generals in a meeting last month. "He said that the army has become a separate political force. This is dangerous."


worried about a coup?


	Further evidence that the army is its own boss came earlier this month, when military judges derailed the country's most important war crimes case - the trial of a colonel accused of strangling a Chechen teenage girl.

	Yuri Budanov had already admitted, during a two-year trial, that he abducted the 18-year-old girl, savagely beating her, then strangling her and ordering subordinates to bury her naked body.

	The Kremlin had hoped Budanov's trial would demonstrate it was serious about introducing the rule of law into Chechnya. Instead, the army has derailed such hopes.


something going on here, a political hit-job against army?

is kindof strange if Army wins in chechnya but Putin gets all the credit


	A prosecution appeal is taking place this week, but the military judgment is likely to be confirmed, in a body blow to efforts to "normalise" Chechnya. "The army is separate from anyone else," Gamushkina says. "It is a danger to society."


A Putin surrogate actually said that?


http://www.ponarseurasia.org/memo/strong-public-support-military-reform-russia
	The Russian public strongly supports reform of the Russian military. In focus groups in summer 2002 and in a large-scale survey in January 2003, we found deep and widespread interest and anxiety associated with conditions in the military. Specifically, our January 2003 survey results show that barely half the Russian population of age 16 and over has confidence in the army. Three-fifths advocate a professional military instead of the current conscript-based force. Concern about brutal hazing of young recruits is nearly universal and sympathy for draft dodgers is surprisingly high. Over two-thirds advocate increased spending on the military, while 38 percent want a smaller military. In addition, two-thirds of likely voters view military reform as an important issue in choosing which party to vote for. Support for change in the military is especially strong among women from 30- to 49-years old and better-educated Russians. Support for the status quo is stronger among the oldest cohorts and those with the least education. [...]


public support for them low around this time, want "reforms"

"anti-corruption" purges, maybe?


https://worldview.stratfor.com/article/moscow-tackles-military-corruption
	Moscow Tackles Military Corruption

	Aug 9, 2000 | 05:00 GMT



http://www.irishtimes.com/news/chechen-war-veteran-flexes-political-muscles-sending-shiver-down-the-spine-of-the-kremlin-1.345278
	Putin has fought against this, installing former KGB colonel Sergei Ivanov as defence minister and giving him the job of implementing wide-ranging reforms. They have failed to bite, though, and a second initiative, to put the FSB - the renamed KGB - in charge of the Chechen war has come to nothing.


so kindof open about it, military "reforms" while trying to put FSB in charge of Chechen war

	...Born in the ethnic Russian community in the Chechen capital, Grozny, he became famous for declaring, early in the present war, that the shattered city should never be rebuilt so as to serve as a warning against treason to Russia's ethnic minorities. Later he demanded that captured guerrillas be publicly executed.


this what wikipedia citing sounds like. Second claim misleading at best, said privately. First true? he was raised there.

	What has infuriated the Kremlin, however, have been his constant announcements over more than three years that the war is "almost over". These statements are invariably followed by new Chechen offensives, most recently on December 27th, when two suicide bombers detonated huge truck-bombs outside the province's administrative headquarters in Grozny, killing 46.

	Talk of a coup, however, is far-fetched. For one thing, the army is in a mess. Hardly a week passes without a story of more desertions, incompetence and bungling within the country's under-funded, bloated armed forces.


wtf is going on here

Stephens makes it sound like coup would stop the war?


	Human rights groups say units raise cash in Chechnya by kidnapping civilians, then "selling" them back to anxious relatives. Last September, an entire 54-man unit deserted its post in Volgograd,claiming living conditions were worse than prison.

	This loss of prestige has angered the officer corps who, like Troshev, were brought up to expect Soviet-era greatness. Troshev is unlikely to demand a place in the Kremlin, but he will demand that military spending will rise.


did the war itself harm reputation of Russian army?

war officially ends May 2000, around the same time as call for "reforms" and Russian army popularity low, the "insurgency phase" from 2000 - 2009


	...The other target will be central Asia. The army is furious that Moscow has allowed America to build a chain of bases in these former Soviet republics, long regarded as Russia's back yard.


interesting--Afghanistan war a way to drive wedge between Russian and U.S. army?


------

this guy said to be "powerful ally" of Troshev

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anatoly_Kvashnin
	was the Chief of the Russian General Staff from 1997 to 2004, when he was dismissed by President Vladimir Putin.

	...As Chief of the Russian General Staff he had some success in reforming the command structure for the strategic deterrent forces, but feuded with Defence Minister Sergei Ivanov and many of his subordinates. 


http://www.nbcnews.com/id/5462939/ns/world_news/
	MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday fired the nation’s top soldier, who was blamed by the defense minister for resisting reform, in a security shake-up that included the dismissals of top officials of the Interior Ministry and the KGB successor agency. 


"resisting reform"

also "reforms" for the Interior Ministry and FSB


	The dismissal of Gen. Anatoly Kvashnin, the armed forces’ chief of general staff, was expected after last month’s brazen attack by militants on police and government facilities in Ingushetia, a region that borders Chechnya.

	Ninety people were killed in the coordinated assaults, which highlighted Russian forces’ weaknesses in and around Chechnya and undermined Kremlin claims that the situation there was stabilizing after nearly a decade of war and chaos.


interesting--using Cechan war as a way to purge military?


	Putin also dismissed the head of Interior Ministry forces, Gen. Vyacheslav Tikhomirov; the deputy director of the Federal Security Service, or FSB, Anatoly Yezhkov; and commander of the North Caucasus military district, which includes Chechnya and Ingushetia, Mikhail Labunets.

	The military, Interior Ministry and FSB all are involved in Russia’s campaign against separatist rebels in Chechnya. Yezhkov was the top FSB official for the North Caucasus.


article makes it sound that way


	But analysts said the June 21 assault on Ingushetia likely was being used as a pretext to dismiss Kvashnin, who was unpopular in military circles and had clashed with Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov, a close Putin ally, over military reform. Kvashnin’s position was equivalent to chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the United States.


which "military circles?"

	...Alexander Golts, a military observer for the weekly magazine Yezhenedelny Zhurnal, said Kvashnin’s dismissal stemmed from a new law changing the functions of the military’s general staff from operational to mostly analytical. Kvashnin was not ready for that change, Golts said.

	The other dismissals were aimed at “finding scapegoats” to blame for unsuccessful policies in Chechnya, Golts said.


maybe Golts has it backwards


	...Although Baluyevsky was a strong critic of the U.S.-led war on Iraq and of U.S. plans to build a missile defense shield, he is seen as well-inclined toward the West.

	In April, after NATO expanded its membership to include several ex-Soviet republics, Baluyevsky struck a conciliatory stance, saying Moscow would closely watch the alliance’s activities in the new Baltic member states, but it wanted to avoid taking military countermeasures.

	“Baluyevsky is known for his interest toward the West ... Western diplomats and military men are likely to praise his appointment,” Felgenhauer said.

	Kvashnin had rough relations with the West. In his book, “The Russia Hand,” former U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott called Kvashnin the “driving force” behind Russian forces’ June 1999 takeover of a Kosovo airport after NATO’s bombing campaign against Yugoslavia. That takeover dismayed alliance commanders.


this seems backwards? Kvashnin sounds like probably a good guy, doubtful about Baluyevsky if Putin wanted him in


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yuri_Baluyevsky
	On 19 January 2008, Baluyevsky warned that Russia was ready to use force, including pre-emptively and with nuclear weapons, to defend itself against the potential threats from "international terrorism or countries seeking global or regional hegemony."

	...In explaining Russia's rationale, General Yuri Baluyevsky, the Russian Deputy Chief of Staff said at a press conference in June 2002, "Iran does have nuclear weapons. These are non-strategic nuclear weapons. I mean these are not ICBMs with a range of more than 5,500 kilometers... As for the danger of Iran's attack on the United States, the danger is zero." General Baluyevsky's extraordinary briefing implied that Iran had acquired its fissile material from another source so there was no reason for Russia not to complete the nuclear reactor at Bushehr. He concluded "This co-operation will continue." (The cooperation, aside from nuclear reactors, included the delivery of Russian Kilo-class diesel-powered submarines, MiG-29 fighters, Sukhoi bombers, GLONASS navigation system and satellite-launching assistance).[4]


doesn't sound particularly "pro-Western"


------


https://books.google.com/books?id=gMKj1NkvteoC&pg=PA569&lpg=PA569&dq=%22Yuri+Baluyevsky%22+FSB&source=bl&ots=DxtI3ybW4g&sig=2bGDjAOrPlkUj-5zA3WElSkp00M&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwic9rKgndfVAhWD2SYKHdeiD7wQ6AEITzAH#v=onepage&q=%22Yuri%20Baluyevsky%22%20FSB&f=false


Here's Putin saying FSB will take over Chechen war Jan 2001


------


https://sputniknews.com/analysis/2004072039765480/
	16:25 20.07.2004

	 Vladimir Putin conducted large-scale reshuffles in the country's military and law enforcement structures yesterday. He dismissed Anatoly Kvashnin, chief of the General Staff, Vyacheslav Tikhomirov, chief commander of the interior troops, Mikhail Labunets, commander of the North Caucasus district of the interior troops, and Anatoly Yezhkov, deputy director of the FSB. Yuri Baluyevsky, former first deputy of Gen. Kvashnin, has been appointed in place of his ex-boss, and Alexander Baranov has been transferred to the post of commander of the North-Caucasus military district from the Volga-Urals district.

	According to the newspaper, the majority of reshuffles are linked, in one way or another, to the failed federal policy in the North Caucasus, i.e., the assassination of Akhmad Kadyrov and the militants' attack on Ingushetia on June 22. According to the newspaper, "the FSB, Interior Ministry troops and Defence Ministry units had obviously lost their grip on the situation in the North Caucasus." The president's decision raised the level of responsibility of the new people appointed to important posts in the military and law enforcement structures. According to many experts, Kvashnin was "a political heavyweight" from the Yeltsin era, and therefore his dismissal was not surprising.



I wonder if installing these new people suddenly "turned the tide" in Chechan war?


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Akhmad_Kadyrov
	On 9 May 2004, an explosion ripped through the VIP seating at the Dinamo football stadium during a mid-morning Soviet Victory Day parade in the capital city of Grozny, instantly killing Akhmad Kadyrov. Two of his bodyguards, the Chairman of the Chechen State Council, a Reuters journalist, and as many as a dozen others were also killed (a later report stated that more than 30 people had died).[7] Some 56 others were wounded, including Colonel General Valery Baranov, the commander of Russian forces in Chechnya, who lost a leg in the explosion. The bomb was said to have been built into the concrete of a supporting column during recent repairs. The Islamist Chechen rebel leader Shamil Basayev later claimed that he had paid $50,000 for the attack.[8]


wtf

FSB kill Kadyrov?

then use as excuse for military purge

http://www.nytimes.com/2006/06/17/world/europe/17briefs-002.html
	Ramzan A. Kadyrov, Chechnya's young prime minister, declared Shamil Basayev, Russia's most wanted man, "my personal enemy" and said Mr. Basayev would be held "responsible for my father's blood." Mr. Kadyrov's statements followed the posting of a videotape on Thursday in which Mr. Basayev said he had paid $50,000 to have Mr. Kadyrov's father, Akhmad, the Chechen president, killed by a bomb in 2004. In the video, Mr. Basayev said that he was prepared to pay $50,000 for Mr. Kadyrov's death but that he would prefer to pay only $25,000. Mr. Basayev has claimed responsibility for the worst terrorist acts in modern Russia, including the downing of two aircraft with bombs and the seizure of a public school in Beslan, both in 2004.


seems a little on the cheap side?

strange

why record this video in the first place?


------


https://www.rferl.org/a/profile-ramzan-kadyrov-chechnya-russia-putin/26802368.html
	Chechen Republic head Ramzan Kadyrov, who celebrated his 38th birthday on October 5, may not yet be the second-most-powerful political figure in the Russian Federation. But that is not for want of self-promotion. He is already certainly the most colorful/flamboyant, arguably the most quoted (after his surrogate father and political patron, Russian President Vladimir Putin), and probably the most feared, not only across the North Caucasus but by those elsewhere in Russia who are already asking themselves what will happen if Putin leaves office, and who might succeed him.


So Basayev kills his father, according to him and nytimes, a video somewhere, and now RFE/RL is saying Ramzan Kadyrov could be next in line for Putin president, sees Putin as father figure?


http://www.teenvogue.com/story/ramzan-kadyrov-chechnya-leader
	Appointed by Russian president Vladimir Putin to fill a position after his father's death in 2004

this why?

why is teen vogue reporting on this...

	He participated in an Apprentice-style reality show in Chechnya in 2016, with 16 contestants competing for the role of his assistant. In one episode, he describes his portrayal in the media as being “invented” by “enemies of the people, enemies of our state” and is seen picking wildflowers in the fields of Chechnya.


he sounds like Trump

	...A Chechen woman recorded a message via WhatsApp in 2015 imploring Kadyrov to address people “dying of hunger” in the region. Roughly a week later, she publicly apologized to Kadyrov on government-run television for the message, stating that she was confused.


FSB probably masturbating to this


seems to do a bunch of abuses on his own people


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramzan_Kadyrov
	Kadyrov strove to gain the respect of his father, Akhmad Kadyrov, who was an imam. He claims that he always emulated his father. Akhmad had supported the call for jihad against Russians during the First Chechen War but switched sides and declared allegiance to Russia in the Second Chechen War.[16][17] In the early 1990s, as the Soviet Union dissolved, the Chechens launched a bid for independence.

	During the First Chechen War, together with his father, he fought against Russian armed forces.[18] After the war, Ramzan was the personal driver and bodyguard of his father Akhmad, who became the separatist mufti of Chechnya.[19]

	The Kadyrovtsy militia was formed during the First Chechen War when Akhmad Kadyrov launched the jihad against Russia.

	The Kadyrov clan defected to the Moscow side at the beginning of the Second Chechen War in 1999. Since then, Kadyrov led his militia with support from Russia's FSB state security service (including service ID cards) becoming the head of the Chechen Presidential Security Service.[20] The militia later became known as the Kadyrovites.


So his father launches Jihad against Russia, Ramzan seems to go along, but then him (and his father?) involved in FSB, "defect" to Russia


	He said that the war was already over with only 150 "bandits" remaining (as opposed to the official figures of 700 to 2,000 rebel fighters), and that thanks to his father, 7,000 separatists had already defected to the Russian side since 1999. When responding to a question on how he is going to "avenge the murder of his father", Ramzan said:

		I've already killed him, whom I ought to kill. And those, who stay behind him, I will be killing them, to the very last of them, until I am myself killed or jailed. I will be killing [them] for as long as I live... Putin is gorgeous. He thinks more about Chechnya than about any other republic [of the Russian Federation]. When my father was murdered, he [Putin] came and went to the cemetery in person. Putin has stopped the war. Putin should be made president for life. Strong rule is needed. Democracy is all but an American fabrication... Russians never obey their laws. Everyone was stealing, and only Khodorkovsky is in jail.[25][26][27]


sounds suspicious


also weird it seems Russian propagandists want people to think FSB killed Basayev? Basayev killed in 2006


https://www.rferl.org/a/profile-ramzan-kadyrov-chechnya-russia-putin/26802368.html
	Kadyrov's current pre-eminence is all the more impressive given that it was only in the early summer of 2004, following the death of his father Akhmed-hadji Kadyrov in a terrorist bombing that has never been solved,


RFE/RL claims bombing was never solved

was it Basayev or not?

maybe Ramzan killed his father, who knows


C.J. Chivers who reported on video sounds like Russian spy


------

http://www.nytimes.com/2006/06/17/world/europe/17briefs-002.html
	Mr. Kadyrov's statements followed the posting of a videotape on Thursday in which Mr. Basayev said he had paid $50,000 to have Mr. Kadyrov's father, Akhmad, the Chechen president, killed by a bomb in 2004. In the video, Mr. Basayev said that he was prepared to pay $50,000 for Mr. Kadyrov's death but that he would prefer to pay only $25,000. Mr. Basayev has claimed responsibility for the worst terrorist acts in modern Russia


Chivers makes it sound like Basayev did it from the way he reports


http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/06/15/AR2006061501186_pf.html
	Chechen Warlord Sets Bounty for Official

	By MIKE ECKEL
	The Associated Press
	Thursday, June 15, 2006; 3:59 PM

	MOSCOW -- A Chechen warlord who is wanted for some of Russia's worst terrorist attacks has set a $25,000 bounty for the killing of a government leader in the troubled North Caucasus region, according to a posting Thursday on a Web site sympathetic to rebels.

	The Kavkaz Center Web site also posted what appeared to be a new video of Shamil Basayev, the warlord who has claimed responsibility for seizing some 800 hostages in a Moscow theater in 2002 and the 2004 school siege in Beslan that killed 331.

	According to the site, Basayev also repeated his claim of responsibility for the 2004 bombing that killed Chechnya's Moscow-backed president, Akhmad Kadyrov, saying he paid $50,000 to those who carried out the assassination.

	The warlord said he had put a $25,000 bounty on the head of Kadyrov's son, Ramzan _ a flamboyant prime minister in the Kremlin-backed regional government who heads widely feared paramilitary forces accused of abducting civilians and other violence.

	He is widely assumed to become the region's next president after he turns 30 later this year, the legal age for the job.

	According the Web site, Basayev mocked Ramzan in offering the bounty by saying: "He isn't worth more than that."

	The video, shot apparently with a cell phone, shows a man who appears to be Basayev and another one who the Web site identified as rebel leader Doku Umarov discussing how to make bombs from common household goods such as soda bottles and cans.

	The two, dressed in warm clothing, can be heard speaking in Chechen. It also shows them eating, huddled around a smoky campfire.

	The Web site said the video was shot at the end of March and beginning of April.

	There was no way to confirm the authenticity of the video or the information on the site, but Kavkaz Center is known to be sympathetic or even allied with Chechen rebels, and Basayev has used it in the past to claim responsibility for attacks.


AP sounds much more skeptical


So Besayev is FSB, FSB apparently wants people to believe Besayev did it?


Or, release a shoddy fake video to make people think Besayev framed, and that he didn't do it


video in 2006, 2004 there's this:


https://www.rferl.org/a/1341771.html
	Predictably, the Russian Defense Ministry immediately blamed Chechen "rebels" for the blast. Chechen security officials also said on 9 May that "a preliminary analysis" suggests that the bombing was the work of either radical Chechen field commander Shamil Basaev or Aslan Maskhadov (who was elected Chechen president in January 1997). But no less an expert than former Federal Security Service (FSB) Director Nikolai Patrushev cast doubt on that hypothesis, pointing out that security at venues for events such as the Victory Day celebration is extremely tight, and that the stadium should have been patrolled regularly by police with sniffer dogs. Patrushev suggested that "traitors" within Kadyrov's entourage either planted the bomb or enabled others to do so. 


Chechan security officials point to Besaev right away, FSB says no, security too tight, was "traitor"

except bomb was built into concrete, no?

looks likely FSB did it one way or another--they install Putin puppet afterward

	Those who believe that Kadyrov was the pillar and mainstay of Moscow's Chechnya policy have identified the most likely candidate to succeed Kadyrov as his son Ramzan. They point to the fact that Russian television screened footage of Putin meeting with Ramzan Kadyrov within hours of his father's death, and suggest that in the interests of "stability," the Russian leadership will turn a blind eye to Ramzan Kadyrov's reputation as a barely literate thug, and to his alleged involvement in abduction and torture, including against supporters of his father's rival candidates in last October's presidential ballot.

	The biggest obstacle to the choice of Ramzan Kadyrov to succeed his father is the Chechen Constitution, which sets the minimum age for presidential candidates at 30; Ramzan is 27.

	But on 13 May, members of the Chechen government, the State Council (the interim legislature), and the Security Council, together with leading Muslim clerics, appealed to President Putin to suspend the Chechen Constitution to permit Ramzan Kadyrov to contest the 5 September election for a new republican head. 


hmmm

	...Kadyrov's initial success in rebuilding Grozny and other towns was largely the result of delegating responsibility to a handful of trusted cronies: Kadyrov is not so much Mr. Fix-it as Mr. Make-sure-YOU-fix-it-by-yesterday-or-God-help-you-and-your-wife-and-kids. That said, he is fiercely loyal to those of his subordinates who consistently deliver the goods -- providing they never question his authority.


sounds a lot like Trump

	Whether or not there were solid grounds for such speculation, the fighting that erupted in southeastern Ukraine in the wake of Moscow's annexation of Crimea presented Kadyrov with the perfect opportunity to demonstrate his loyalty, his usefulness, and his cynicism, by dispatching his security forces to fight on the side of the pro-Russian separatist forces and then disowning them as "volunteers" who had traveled to Ukraine without the knowledge or approval of the Chechen authorities. In late May, the Financial Times quoted a Chechen fighter named Zelimkhan who said he and his comrades in arms had just been sent to Ukraine on Kadyrov's orders. More recently, Pavel Gubarev, former head of the self-proclaimed "Donetsk People's Republic," told a journalist that Kadyrov "provides us with a huge amount of help, both militarily and in other respects."


ALERT ALERT


ISLAMICISTS commiting acts of TERRORISM in Ukraine!


yet Trump doesn't care

probably because they're white


	...Kadyrov may invite ridicule by his blustering and posturing. But in an article published last month in the weekly Versiya, Ruslan Gorevoy quoted analyst Andrei Okara as saying Kadyrov and Putin are "the only two real politicians in Russia today," the remainder being "either bureaucrats, or propagandists, or clowns."


Kadyrov not a clown?


	Assuming that Kadyrov really is the second-most-powerful political figure in Russia, any number of questions still remain unanswered. First, what is the precise relationship between him and Putin? Did Putin realize Kadyrov's potential as a national military leader and play Pygmalion, molding him into a figure who would willingly undertake commissions that violate international law? Or did Kadyrov take advantage of the freedom of action and total impunity Putin gave him in order to indulge some psychopathic tendencies and insatiable appetite for power?


author seems to be used to covering Russian intelligence activities


------


so looks like FSB did a provocation in Chechnya, maybe multiple, to discredit Russian army and purge those not loyal to Putin


as for Kadyrov, maybe a way to consolidate power with Muslims? started with a "Jihad" against Russian then 180d along with FSB. So they could end the Jihad I guess.


If Kadyrov close to Putin, probably not going to get involved with Al-Qaeda, maybe Taliban if they're having "talks"
