https://www.rt.com/usa/375212-hersh-russian-hacking-propaganda/
	 Investigative journalist Seymour Hersh called the way US media have reported on the allegations that Russia somehow interfered in the 2016 US elections “outrageous.” The Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter said the “hectoring” press overlooked the real story.

	“The way they behaved on the Russia stuff was outrageous,” Hersh told The Intercept in an interview for Jeremy Scahill’s inaugural podcast. “They were hectoring. They didn’t do reporting.”


https://theintercept.com/2017/01/25/seymour-hersh-blasts-media-for-uncritically-promoting-russian-hacking-story/
	...According to the report, the NSA was said to have had a lower confidence level than James Clapper and the CIA about the conclusion that Russia intended to influence the election. Hersh characterized the report as full of assertions and thin on evidence.

	“It’s high camp stuff,” Hersh told The Intercept. “What does an assessment mean? It’s not a national intelligence estimate. If you had a real estimate, you would have five or six dissents. One time they said 17 agencies all agreed. Oh really? The Coast Guard and the Air Force — they all agreed on it? And it was outrageous and nobody did that story. An assessment is simply an opinion. If they had a fact, they’d give it to you. An assessment is just that. It’s a belief. And they’ve done it many times.”

	...In recent years, Hersh has been attacked for his investigative reports on a variety of policies and actions authorized by the Obama administration, but he has never backed down from his aggressive approach to journalism. His reporting on the raid that killed Osama bin Laden dramatically contradicted the administration’s story, and his investigation on the use of chemical weapons in Syria cast doubts on the official claim that Bashar al Assad ordered the attacks. 


http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-05-01/seymour-hersh-says-hillary-approved-sending-libyas-sarin-syrian-rebels
	Hersh also said that a secret agreement in 2012 was reached between the Obama Administration and the leaders of Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar, to set up a sarin gas attack and blame it on Assad so that the US could invade and overthrow Assad.


https://www.lrb.co.uk/v38/n01/seymour-m-hersh/military-to-military
	Seymour M. Hersh on US intelligence sharing in the Syrian war

	When it comes to tackling Islamic State, Russia and the US have much to offer each other. Many in the IS leadership and rank and file fought for more than a decade against Russia in the two Chechen wars that began in 1994, and the Putin government is heavily invested in combating Islamist terrorism.

	...A former White House adviser on Russian affairs told me that before 9/11 Putin ‘used to say to us: “We have the same nightmares about different places.” He was referring to his problems with the caliphate in Chechnya and our early issues with al-Qaida. These days, after the Metrojet bombing over Sinai and the massacres in Paris and elsewhere, it’s hard to avoid the conclusion that we actually have the same nightmares about the same places.’

	Yet the Obama administration continues to condemn Russia for its support of Assad. 

	...Putin’s bombing campaign provoked a series of anti-Russia articles in the American press. On 25 October, the New York Times reported, citing Obama administration officials, that Russian submarines and spy ships were ‘aggressively’ operating near the undersea cables that carry much of the world’s internet traffic – although, as the article went on to acknowledge, there was ‘no evidence yet’ of any Russian attempt actually to interfere with that traffic.

	...Economic sanctions, meanwhile, are still in effect against Russia for what a large number of Americans consider Putin’s war crimes in Ukraine


http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/31/world/middleeast/syria.html
	U.S. Releases Detailed Intelligence on Syrian Chemical Attack

	By DAVID JOLLY, SCOTT SAYARE and RICK GLADSTONEAUG. 30, 2013 

	PARIS — Seeking to move beyond Britain’s blindsiding rejection of military intervention in the Syrian conflict, the Obama administration received strong support from France on Friday and released a detailed intelligence summary to buttress its contention that the Syrian government used chemical munitions in an Aug. 21 attack, asserting for the first time that it had killed 1,429 people, nearly a third of them children.


https://www.lrb.co.uk/v36/n08/seymour-m-hersh/the-red-line-and-the-rat-line
	The Red Line and the Rat Line

	Seymour M. Hersh on Obama, Erdoğan and the Syrian rebels

	By the last days of August the president had given the Joint Chiefs a fixed deadline for the launch. ‘H hour was to begin no later than Monday morning [2 September], a massive assault to neutralise Assad,’ the former intelligence official said. So it was a surprise to many when during a speech in the White House Rose Garden on 31 August Obama said that the attack would be put on hold, and he would turn to Congress and put it to a vote.

	At this stage, Obama’s premise – that only the Syrian army was capable of deploying sarin – was unravelling. Within a few days of the 21 August attack, the former intelligence official told me, Russian military intelligence operatives had recovered samples of the chemical agent from Ghouta. They analysed it and passed it on to British military intelligence; this was the material sent to Porton Down. (A spokesperson for Porton Down said: ‘Many of the samples analysed in the UK tested positive for the nerve agent sarin.’ MI6 said that it doesn’t comment on intelligence matters.)

	The former intelligence official said the Russian who delivered the sample to the UK was ‘a good source – someone with access, knowledge and a record of being trustworthy’. 


https://scotthorton.org/interviews/040714-seymour-hersh/
	Scott Horton: … I think, well, it’s all over Twitter, anyway, that like, well yeah, you know, right, it’s a Russian sample so how can you believe it? But it seems to me from your reporting here that the UK and the US Governments didn’t have a problem with the Russian origin of the sample.

	Seymour Hersh: Oh my God, don’t forget, we and the Russians were pretty good allies in the 1990s. And when the chemical warfare treaty went into effect in 1997, we pooled information with the Russians. And I can also tell you, I write about this in my article, it certainly did come from a Russian. It was delivered by a Russian source who was described to me by an American as somebody really solid. Somebody we all knew, somebody we all trusted. This is not a game. We also had our own information about what was going on inside the Syrian arsenal. Believe me, the Syrian government would be more than happy to give a sample of any of it because they were eager to have this looked at. So that’s just, you know, only in America, it’s so funny, Scott, only in America, would you read that “Oh my God, Russia!” (laughs) The Cold War is still on. It can be very strange. Yes, the Russians supplied the sample. They picked up a sample right away, a lot of samples. The British had absolutely no trouble with the provenance. They knew it came from Damascus, the British analyzed it. It was the British finding out of Porton Down that convinced our army that we had to tell the President he doesn’t have a case. And I think, that if you want a run on with the Russians, go ahead.


http://www.propornot.com/p/the-list.html
	...zerohedge.com ... russia-insider.com...


http://russia-insider.com/en/behind-medias-assault-seymour-hersh/ri7297
	Ultimately, the bipartisan attack on Hersh shows the complete media conformity on US foreign policy, where Republicans, Democrats, and even “progressive” media have come to accept a governmental policy of never-ending war and mass surveillance. No questions asked.




http://www.nytimes.com/1978/06/25/archives/the-angleton-story-from-forced-retirement-james-jesus-angleton.html


Is Hersh one of ours? this is almost ridiculous



------


http://www.nytimes.com/1975/03/19/archives/cia-salvage-ship-brought-up-part-of-soviet-sub-lost-1968-failed-to.html
	C.I.A. SALVAGE SHIP BROUGHT UP PART OF SOVIET SUB LOST IN 1968, FAILED TO RAISE ATOM MISSILES

	By SEYMOUR HERSHMARCH 19, 1975 

	WASHINGTON, March 18—The Central Intelligence Agency financed the construction of a multimillion‐dollar deep‐sea salvage vessel and used it in an unsuccessful effort last summer to recover hydrogenwarhead missiles and codes from a sunken Soviet submarine in the Pacific Ocean, according to high Government officials.

trying to argue CIA not worth the money?

	Critics Cite Cost

	Critics of the program have said that the value of the information that could be gleaned from what they depict as outmoded code books and outmoded missiles did not justify either the high cost of the operation or its potential for jeopardizing the United States‐Soviet détente.


yup


	Following the publication of some information about the operation by The Los Angeles Times last month, The New York Times investigated the matter further. The New York Times was informed by the C.I.A., in the course of the investigation, that publication would endanger the national security because the agency was considering an effort this summer to retrieve the remainder of the sunken submarine and publicity would thwart any such effort.

	...The Times also informed the C.I.A. that it would publish a comprehensive article on the operation if it became known that others were about to disclose details publicly.

	Tonight the story of the Soviet submarine and the salvage effort was circulating widely in journalistic and Government circles in Washington. Publication by one or more correspondents appeared imminent, despite the efforts of the C.I.A. to convince the news media that its secret should be kept, for the time being.


NY Times = Russian propaganda?

Gotta suck the KGB's dick to get those leads, right?


	Precisely how the Glomar Explorer was outfitted to attempt the recovery of the sunken” submarine could not be learned, nor could any accurate cost estimate be made for the vessel. One official of the Summa Corporation said in an interview that the Glomar Explorer alone cost more than $100‐million. Some newspaper accounts have put, the price tag for the ship at $250‐million.

	It also could not be learned whether either of those estimates included the expensive dredging and derrick equipment utilized in the salvage operation.

	...The concept of building a deep‐sea salvage vessel under cover of the Hughes organization reportedly caused sharp arguments inside the Nixon Administration throughout 1970 and 1971. At one point in 1971, the Jennifer operation “was in deep trouble because there were all kinds of technical problems,” one source said. In later months, there were serious cost overruns that led to even more controversy.

	There were other kinds of problems, another source recalled, many of them revolving around official concern about the potential impact that public revelation of the project could have on the highly publicized Soviet‐United States détente.

	And, although Government attorneys knew of no international law barring such salvage, attempts, there was extended debate about whether the Russians legally would be justified in attempting to sink the Explorer if they happened to stumble onto or otherwise uncover the operation.


Hersh trying to say the CIA is "wasting money"/"hurting detente?"


	The Glomar Explorer was equipped with refrigeration capacity for up to 100 bodies, and copies of the relevant Soviet and American burial manuals were, along. The burial ceremony, when it did take place, sources said, was conducted in both.Russian and English and recorded in color by a C.I.A. cameraman.


Why even bother? KGB propagandists just turn around and spin it as the U.S. trying to pretend to be respectful


	Prior to the actual recovery operation, other objections were posed on more practical grounds, the sources added: Was it worth the hundreds of millions of dollars involved to learn what kind of equipment was being utilized by the Russians? Was there any information available that would have justified the operation?


keeps returning to that


	According to one member of the crew, the Glomar Explorer did accomplish some mining of minerals in the waters off Hawaii during its Pacific cruise. The crew member, who was reluctant to permit his name to be used, also insisted during a brief telephone interview that he and his colleagues knew nothing of an attempted submarine salvage effort.

rubbing it in? would guess the "burglers" were KGB?

KGB seems upset if you try to keep secrets from them


	Questions Raised

	A number of the Government sources said they believed that the role of the Hughes Corporation in the Jennifer operation as well as the company's unusual involvement in many of the Government's most sensitive intelligence missions raised fundamental questions.

	Throughout the Watergate inquiry, these sources noted, the so‐called Hughes connection—revolving around the fact that E. Howard Hunt, convicted in the Watergate burglary, was working for a public relations firm doing work for Mr. Hughes at the time of the Watergate break‐in in 1972—was never publicly explored.

	Similariy, questions were raised about the burglary last June at the Hughes headquarters in Los Angeles. There were reliable reports that the thieves sought to blackmail the Hughes organization and, apparently, the C.I.A. and other Government agencies, by offering to return the stolen documents detailing the submarine and other secret operations in return for $1‐million.

	Intelligence officials, in interviews here, confirmed that payoff discussions were seriously initiated..

	A county grand jury began hearing evidence into the burglary and alleged blackmail attempt on Feb. 13, in a proceeding marked by extremely tight security.


Ties in to watergate and I guess some kind of insinuation of CIA wrongdoing conspiracy



------

https://timesmachine.nytimes.com/timesmachine/1904/06/16/i/Timesmachine_OpenIndexPanel


Seems like Hersh did a lot of the coverage of Watergate?



	Documents Hint Politics Played Role in Wiretaps
	FRIDAY, JULY 19, 1974, P. 1

	The House Judiciary Committee published today a mass of evidence that appeared to challenge President Nixon's contention that national security was the sole basis for White House involvement in wiretaps and the so-called "plumbers" operations.


now I don't know what to believe...



