https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hope_Hicks

Hicks Trump's "longest serving aide," in transition team, campaign, started working with Ivanka Trump on fashion line in 2012, other Trump ventures. Joined Trump org in 2014.

	She is the daughter of Caye Ann (Cavender) and Paul Burton Hicks III, who was an executive vice-president of communications for the NFL.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/wp/2015/07/27/hope-hicks-flies-quietly-in-the-eye-of-the-trump-storm/?utm_term=.b090764100b1
	This is the eye of the storm, and this is Hope Hicks: Trump’s media handler, corporate aide and the figure responsible for executing the details of the most surprising and divisive political rise in recent memory.

	Hicks, 26, remains a mostly invisible character on the campaign trail, but the New York public relations scion has become an important piece of the Trump apparatus.

"Responsible for executing the details"? how exactly?


Young, smart, attractive, orchestrating things behind the scenes--she's my counterpart!

	“There has always been a very strong connection between politics and entertainment,” Hiltzik said. “Hope has a very good sensibility … She worked in situations that required the same attention to detail and sensitivities that a political campaign would, so it wasn’t much of a stretch for her to make that transition.”

So what exactly does she do?

	As executive vice president of communications at the NFL, her father, Paul B. Hicks III, is Roger Goodell’s right-hand man. Prior to that, he was regional CEO of the Americas for Ogilvy Public Relations. Her late grandfather, also Paul Hicks, was vice president and general manager of public relations for Texaco.

	The family has important roots in D.C. Hope Hicks’s maternal grandfather, G.W.F. “Dutch” Cavender, was assistant administrator for the Department of Agriculture during the Johnson and Nixon administrations, while her maternal grandmother was a bureaucrat at the Department of Transportation.

Right, sounds like Okhrana?

	In the event Trump is elected president, Hicks could return to the city where her parents’ marriage started. At the time of their wedding in 1982, Paul and Caye Cavender Hicks were congressional aides to former Reps. Stewart B. McKinney (R-Conn.) and Rep. Ed Jones (D-Tenn.), respectively.

McKinney died of AIDS, presumed bisexual--someone Okhrana would want to blackmail, I would imagine? was on committee investigating assassinations of JFK and MLK as well


	“Her four years of leadership, as captain, provided the groundwork for our program,” e-mailed Liz Holmes, Hicks’s former Lacrosse coach. “She is highly intelligent and brought that to the field in every game … When needed, she carried the team and would score, but preferred to have assists. She was the ultimate team player and competitor.”

High acheiver or KGB assassins heckling her Lacrosse coach

	Hicks, who is described as a sweet-natured counterpoint to Trump, is not known for a particular political leaning. (Her father made a donation to Mitt Romney’s presidential campaign in 2007, but the family is otherwise publicly discreet with its political views.)

Father donated to Romney, "discrete"

Hicks said to be apolitical (so what is her motive for this job, anyway?)

	“What I look for as a hiring manager is the skill set,” said David Shane, executive vice president at Relativity, a Hollywood studio, who became friends with Hicks when they worked together at Hiltzik Strategies.

David Shane a "friend" (a lot of connections for Hicks)

If they're trying to build-up hicks, seems bad to be associated with a Russian stooge?


------


http://www.cosmopolitan.com/politics/news/a56404/who-is-hope-hicks-trump-press-secretary/
	Although her name appears in the media often, Hicks has kept a very low profile during the campaign, scrubbing her public social media profile and staying away from stories written about her. (She politely declined a Cosmopolitan.com interview request.) In December 2016, she spoke briefly at a Trump victory rally in Mobile, Alabama. 


Was in media often, lower profile after joining Trump team (where is she in media often?)

	On Dec. 22, Trump announced that she would serve on his communications team as strategic communications director.

So a strategic communications director strategizes, I guess? If she is Okhrana, would be interesting (althogh not surprising) that they would be directing his strategy

	Her career started in 2012, when she joined the public relations firm Hiltzik Strategies. There, she worked with the Trump organization, according to the Washington Post. (The firm's founder, Matthew Hiltzik, has worked for Hillary Clinton.) 

No shit! I wonder of Hitlzik would be a good place to look for a KGB front? and maybe a good place to be raided by the FBI...


	6. Her campaign duties included helping Trump tweet. Hicks took dictation from Trump for his tweets, then sent them to someone else in the Trump organization to actually tweet, the Washington Post reported.

??? really? So saying its hicks doing all these tweets? are they always what Trump wanted? I mean I guess he would notice...


	They also said working with such a controversial figure won't hurt her career prospects. In fact, it'll likely help her. "When looking at Hope [as a job candidate], I'd be less interested in how intimately she was involved in crafting Trump's persona and more interested in how she functions under pressure, works with reporters and carries herself with integrity — all of which she does very well," David Shane, former executive vice president at Hollywood studio Relativity, told the Washington Post. 

oh, is that what they told her?

	During the campaign, she reportedly received upward of 250 requests to speak with Trump per day, but "she alone decides who gets in and who's kept out," Olivia Nuzzi wrote for GQ. Occasionally, Hicks will accommodate Trump "tantrums" where he declares a certain reporter must be banned for a while.

A lot of power for one woman

	The demands of the campaign reportedly caused the breakup between her and her boyfriend of six years.

Sounds very busy, hardworking, dedicated to job

But what does she think she's getting out of it? what motivates her?

and what exactly does a strategic com director do...

------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_House_Director_of_Strategic_Communications
	President Donald Trump formed the position in late 2016, naming one of his closest advisors and earliest political aides, Hope Hicks, as the nation's first holder of this office.[1]

	The exact responsibilities have yet to be clearly defined, but are assumed to include coordinating media appearances, advising the President on messaging, and serving as a confidant on key matters involving personnel and in executing the President's agenda, an extension of the role Hicks served in the Trump campaign and transition

created the job just for her. Weird...


http://www.ctpost.com/local/article/Greenwich-woman-picked-for-Trump-communications-10814286.php
	Donald J. Trump on Thursday picked Hope Hicks of Greenwich to be his strategic communications director when he becomes president next month.

	The 28-year-old was Trump’s campaign communications chief for nearly a year and a half before their surprise Election Day victory. Giving her a White House job was much less of a surprise, since she has been on the transition team making big decisions on the personnel who will assist Trump.

"making big decisions for personnel" she just keeps looking sketchier and sketchier

a potential Russian conduit to influence Trump?

Also maybe friends with Trump's daugter? personal relationship with any of the family? banging Trump? that sort of thing?

	During the spring, when Trump’s presidential run was starting to stack up failed GOP presidential contenders like cord wood, Hicks made the glaring mistake of sending an email with opposition-research on Hillary Clinton’s role in an Arkansas real estate venture called Whitewater, to a reporter for Politico, the online news organization, rather than the intended recipient: a Trump campaign worker with a similar name.

uhh wtf

what's going on here? did she want to bring-up Whitewater in the press?

	In April she attended a Cos Cob Fire Police Patrol fundraising event that honored her father. That same day, she joined Trump on a helicopter shuttle from Manhattan to Waterbury and Bridgeport for rallies in advance of his statewide victory three days later in Connecticut's GOP primary.

So she's the type of aide to be advising Trump, at his side, making big decisions like who gets to see him


------


https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2016-11-11/trump-s-original-four-the-staffers-behind-his-historic-victory

	Trump’s four constants: Scavino, who first met Trump as a teenage caddie at one of the billionaire businessman’s golf courses and rose to a senior position within the Trump Organization; communications director Hope Hicks, a fashion model-turned-press secretary who had never been involved in politics before her boss ran for president; Michael Glassner, deputy campaign manager and a former aide to former Senator Bob Dole and former vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin; and George Gigicos, Trump’s director of advance, who organized every single one of his rallies.

So here are some people close to Trump, called his "constants," directing a lot of his campaign/PR mostly behind the scenes

	“We have a very close bond,” Hicks said.

	When Trump weighed who to take with him to Washington on Thursday to meet President Barack Obama and begin his transition to power, he tapped Scavino, Hicks, and Gigicos.

Says something. What about Kushner and Bannon?

	“They understand him, and understand what he needs and wants. They’re his core advisers,” said Glassner, who stayed behind at campaign headquarters at Trump Tower in New York to handle some transition planning.

"core advisors"

	Two had personal relationships with Trump before he announced his bid for the White House: Hicks and Scavino. The other two didn’t know Trump, but quickly made themselves indispensable. They avoided running afoul of Trump’s oldest three children, who were deeply involved with the campaign. They also shied away from talking on the record to the press and stayed in their lane as infighting raged in other parts of the campaign.

	Asked to describe Glassner, a 53-year-old Oklahoma native who grew up in Kansas, his coworkers used the same word: disciplined. He doesn’t raise his voice. He doesn’t drink alcohol. His escape is to go home to small-town New Jersey to see his wife and daughters, ages 12 and 14. He runs three to five miles on weekdays and 10 on Saturdays. His meals consist of a plate of asparagus or potatoes or some other pile of vegetables.

Russian automatons here to destroy the world

	But he was in California when his daughters had a big school performance. Trump knew he was distressed about missing it, and recorded a video aboard his jet for Gigicos to send to them. “Girls, your father really loves you,” Trump said in the recording. “We’re running for president. If it’s OK with you, I’ll steal your father for the day. He's a very talented guy and I need him. Thank you, girls.”

Trump seems to like this guy?

	Hicks, 27, entered Trump’s orbit by working public relations for his daughter Ivanka Trump’s company. On the campaign trail, he didn’t go anywhere without Hicks, who handled media requests and offered counsel.

	“Hope has a beautiful mind,” Gigicos said. “She’s probably one of the smartest people that I’ve ever met. If you ask Hope where we were on June 17 at 3 p.m., she can tell you—and she can say what color my tie was.”

So saying Hicks influential on Trump, the brains behind a lot of this?

	Scavino was the titular head of the multi-million-strong virtual community called the Trump Train, creating content and building memes that fueled passion for Trump into a victory. He was one of the few who had access to the @realdonaldtrump Twitter account and would send out tweets on Trump’s behalf. “His genius,” Glassner said, “is that he can read the candidate extremely well and understand the messaging he’ll want to put out at any given time, every given day. It’s being a spokesman times a hundred.”

So this guy can tweet for Trump too? wtf? is Trump writing these tweets or not?

Sounds like Scavino, if he "reads Trump extremely well" is in with the Okhrana op as well

	As a 16-year-old, Scavino had ambitions to work for Trump, and climbed his way up through the company to become a general manager. Scavino, a devout Catholic, is now so close to the Trumps that the campaign staff said they view him as more like a member of the family.

Amazing. Why have such young people do this? practice? or because no history doing anything else sketchy?

	In the early days, the four went everywhere Trump went, strategizing on the fly as they jetted between the early states. Trump’s “motorcade” in those pre-Secret Service days consisted of a couple Suburbans rented from a car service—one with Trump in the front seat and Hicks and original campaign manager Corey Lewandowski in the back, and Scavino, Glassner, and head of security Keith Schiller in the second SUV.

OK so clearly they are tight

	Trump had called the original four onto the stage with him when he won New Hampshire, the victory that revived his prospects after a devastating loss in Iowa, and had gathered them around him at a press conference during the national convention. So it didn’t surprise them when he said: Family first on stage “and the rest of you, too.”

yup

------

http://www.gq.com/story/hope-hicks-mystifying-triumph-donald-trump
	Olivia Nuzzi

Only article by Nuzzi on QG. Nuzzi involved with Wither campaign, burned him

Author and Hicks seem to want an air of mystery about Hicks?

	I wanted Hicks to help me understand just how all this had come to pass, how a person who'd never worked in politics had nonetheless become the most improbably important operative in this election.

I guess some people got a knack for it?

	Hicks's job—a sui generis role of outsize importance that she half invents on the fly—involves keeping the media at bay and operating as Trump's chief gatekeeper. But she's also summoned in critical moments of confusion to play instigator and score-settler. It was her job to facilitate Trump's rebuke of the Pope after His Holiness questioned the Christianity of anybody who would build a border wall (kind of Trump's thing). And it was she who helped malign a female reporter who'd been manhandled by Trump's campaign manager, immediately claiming she was a lying attention hound. 

seems like Hicks helps coordinate Trump's statements and Russia's active measures?

	Hicks grew close to Ivanka and began dressing like the heiress, who seemed worthy of the emulation. Ivanka was that rare female corporate leader who is also kind to other women, and she affected an air of competence that seemed to temper the boorishness of the Trump brand. Conveniently, as Hicks ingratiated herself to Ivanka, she won over The Donald as well—helped by the eager-to-please disposition she'd displayed since childhood.

Makes it sound like she won over Ivanka with flattery? Also sounds like this was planned...


	Kylie Burchell, Hicks's lacrosse coach, recalled her as one of the only players to abide by a no-alcohol policy. “I think the girls were annoyed at her a little bit,” she said. “She was trying to be a leader. She was showing by example what to do.” She wasn’t always so earnest, however. In her senior yearbook, she mistakenly attributed the words of Eleanor Roosevelt—“The future belongs to those who believe in the power of their dreams”—to Jimmy Buffett.

Groomed for this?

	So Hicks joined the team at Trump Tower in October 2014, without any idea her new boss intended to become president. Or that she had just signed on to his campaign.

uh-huh

	Nunberg believes it was Hicks and Lewandowski who petitioned Trump for his ouster and drafted a brutal statement that characterized him as a “low-level part-time consultant.”

	Nunberg still seemed wounded eight months later, when we met. “Of course she ratfucked me, which makes me proud,” he told me.

Hicks practices an interesting kind of "PR"


	Getting the most out of the star requires keeping him informed. While Trump nurses an obvious addiction to cable news, the reading that's put in front of him is largely confined to a topic he already knows well. Every morning, staffers print out 30 to 50 Google News results for “Donald J. Trump.” He then goes at the sheaf with a marker, making circles and arrows and annotating things he likes or doesn't like. The defaced article gets scanned and e-mailed to the journalist or the person quoted who has drawn Trump's attention, under the subject line “From the office of Donald J. Trump.”

wtf am I reading

	While Hicks is often eager to please, she doesn't mind upsetting the media and harbors no reverence for the civic duties of a free press. When reporters send her questions, she's often irked—convinced they're playing detective merely to irritate the campaign. She's seemingly unaware that they might just be vetting a potential United States president. Often she doesn't respond.

	None of this has earned her many enemies, however. Like Ivanka, Hicks has managed to float above it all. For now. “I have always found Hope to be great to deal with,” Maggie Haberman of The New York Times told me, “especially given the volume of requests she must be getting.”

no kidding

	Days earlier, she'd landed in the New York Post after she was spotted on East 61st Street, screaming at Lewandowski. The spectacle was dismissed as an interoffice dispute. Though if that's to be believed, the emotional scene, as described to me by people who saw it—Hicks's fists balled, her face streaked with tears—makes you wonder what the hell goes on in the Trump War Room.

whats going on here

Nuzzi seems to be trying to paint her as naive and over her head

------

http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4555922/Trump-aide-mocked-propaganda-quote-humor.html

Trying to draw attention to the story of Trump being an asshole? or to herself? why?

-------

https://medium.com/@Cernovich/hr-mcmaster-hope-hick-high-schooler-white-house-drama-c2ac7ae6816e

What is Mike Cernovich on about? he usually does hitpeices against McMaster and makes shit up

Maybe he thinks is funny that Trump listens to a young woman over an esteemed General?

-------

http://www.businessinsider.com/hope-hicks-bio-trump-spokeswoman-2017-2/#its-been-said-she-can-act-as-a-sort-of-trump-whisperer-understanding-his-many-moods-and-professionally-executing-what-needs-to-be-done-she-still-only-calls-him-sir-or-mr-trump-15

	"If the acting thing doesn’t work out, I could really see myself in politics," Hicks told Greenwich Magazine when she was 13. "Who knows."

uh-huh

	It's been said she can act as a sort of Trump whisperer, understanding his many moods and professionally executing what needs to be done. She still only calls him "Sir" or "Mr. Trump."

Right so see the same everywhere, she is influential with Trump, close to him


	Some family members and friends have expressed concern that Hicks is so closely tied to a president whose policies and statements are unpopular with a significant number of Americans, but are confident that she'll come through unscathed.

oh, are they? hmmmmm

------

https://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/26/style/hope-hicks-donald-trump.html

	“Her most important role is her bond with the candidate,” said Paul Manafort, the veteran Republican adviser who, as of this past week, had been put in charge of the campaign. “She totally understands him.”

	Or, as Ivanka Trump said in an interview: “My father makes people earn his trust. She’s earned his trust.”

once again

	Mr. Lewandowski and Ms. Hicks are close friends: He has visited her family in Greenwich for pick-me-up dinners and, days after Mr. Trump clinched the Republican nomination (and fired a key political aide), they took in a Hall & Oates concert with her parents in the V.I.P. tent at the Greenwich Town Party.

Another "close friend" of hicks: Cory Lewandowski

	In fact, Ms. Hicks is the third generation of her family to represent a powerful but highly controversial client. Her grandfather led public relations for Texaco during the 1970s oil crisis.

	Her father, Paul B. Hicks III, represented a major tobacco company in Connecticut and later was the top communications executive for the National Football League, where he dealt with scandals over player safety and the Patriots’ deflated footballs.

Wow, oil, tabacco--a lot of coincidences (anything up with the NFL?)

Okhrana runs in families though it seems

Better to have agents born in the country you attack, right?

	He seems to appreciate it. “I’m lucky to have her,” Mr. Trump said in a telephone interview on Thursday. “She’s got very good judgment. She will often give advice, and she’ll do it in a very low-key manner, so it doesn’t necessarily come in the form of advice. But it’s delivered very nicely.”

From the man himself

	Ms. Hicks’s success has not surprised her family (“Hope’s a fighter,” as her father said), even as they harbor some concern about the intensity of her work. “She doesn’t really talk to anybody anymore, she has no life,” Caye Hicks said.

tell me about it...

	On free nights, Ms. Hicks retreats to her parents’ home in Greenwich — her mother sometimes hears a creaking door at 2 a.m. — to unwind. Her sister, Mary Grace, is a paramedic there, and her father, a former town selectman, remains a prominent figure: This spring, Greenwich proclaimed April 23 as Paul B. Hicks III Day to recognize his philanthropy.

weird

	After graduation, she and her father bumped into Mr. Baldwin at the Super Bowl. The meeting led to an interview and job offer from Matthew Hiltzik,

Why keep mentioning Baldwin? I don't even wanna know...

	“I don’t want to comment on that,” he said. “It’s too early. I don’t want to be making those prognostications yet. But she’ll certainly be involved with us. She’s terrific.”

Trump a fan of Hicks

------

http://www.marieclaire.com/politics/news/a20905/donald-trump-communications-director-hope-hicks/
	There are few women in Donald Trump's inner circle. You're probably already familiar with his campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, but what do you know about Hope Hicks? The 27-year-old communications director may have kept a low-profile throughout Trump's campaign, but she played an integral role in his unprecedented rise.

	As Trump tweets about the controversies du jour with abandon, delivers unscripted soliloquies at campaign stops, and is a near-constant presence on cable news, Hicks was behind the scenes, juggling the moving parts of the rapid news cycle.

"integral" "behind the scenes" still not 100% sure what sue does

	HH: In 2015, we were headquartered in New York City in Trump Tower. While we were there, we'd facilitate dozens of interview requests on a given day. He'll talk to anybody; he'll answer anything.

explain why she gaurds who he talks to?

She mostly describes the campaign as innocuous

talks as if she admires Trump

	MC: How well does TV mirror what goes on in a campaign?

	HH: We get so many requests like, "We want behind-the-scenes access" or "We're going to show people what it's really like to be on the campaign with Donald Trump." But there is just no way that a camera or an episode or a documentary could capture what has gone on. There is nothing like it. And I would say 90 percent of that is the people you see and the things they say, and the way they react to Mr. Trump. It is the most unbelievable, awe-inspiring thing.

------

https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/3533962-Hope-Hicks-Financial-Disclosure.html

This is on the internet for some reason

------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_Hiltzik

Hiltzik, owner of PR firm were hicks was trained

worked for CHuck Schumer and Eliot Spitzer campaign, Clinton "Listening Tour"

worked on Clinton's campaign "director of Jewish relations" (why that specifically? something for the conspiritards?)

http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/10/27/AR2009102704010.html

HItzik worked for Glenn Beck

"key role in electing Hillary Clinton to U.S. Senate"

	When I'm picking politicians, employees or business partners, I focus on their character not their political parties," Beck said in a statement. "And I know and trust Matthew's character."

	The close friendship and lucrative business relationship that has developed between the 45-year-old conservative firebrand and the 37-year-old former Democratic operative shows how partisan media personalities get discovered, promoted and catapulted into the political stratosphere, even when the talent and the talent broker have opposing ideologies. But for Hiltzik's former Democratic allies, the alliance is still mostly shocking. 

not really shocking to me...

	His voice turning more serious, Weinstein said there was perhaps a simple reason Hiltzik felt comfortable representing Beck. "I had a lot of actors Matt came in contact with," Weinstein said. "I just think Glenn is another one." 

So what exactly does Hiltzik do with his clients? Seems like it would be a good front operation, and active measures is not so different from PR

	The ribbing and occasional opprobrium of his friends is something Hiltzik -- who also represents Katie Couric, Alec Baldwin, Annie Leibovitz and Don Imus -- said he has no problem weathering. 


	 Beck's fame is, of course, directly related to the heightened platform given to him by Fox News, and his willingness to use it to say outrageous things. Hiltzik said that he deferred to Fox News on all things related to Beck's television show. He repeatedly said that he had nothing to do with the content of Beck's commentary.

	Some of Hiltzik's critics failed to find that a convincing distinction.

	"Lawyers sometimes have to represent mobsters," said Green, the onetime mayoral candidate in New York and president of Air America Media. "But it's not the same excuse when you are a public relations guy. There's a due process that requires everyone to have a lawyer in a criminal case. There is no due process that requires a talk show host to have a flak." 

A good point. Hitlzik was helping attack the U.S. Government basically?

http://gawker.com/550993/matthew-hiltzik
	The PR hotshot has been married to Dana Hiltzik, a speech therapist, since 2001. (Alec Baldwin, Harvey Weinstein, and Hillary Clinton all attended the wedding.) The couple has two children—Ella and Molly—and live on the Upper West Side.

pretty close with Clinton

https://twitter.com/hiltzikstrat?lang=en

Twitter makes it sound like Hiltzik is small, dominated by Matt Hiltzik himself

Mostly likes to tweet about Jewsish things, presumably so conspirtards digging into this believe the protocols of the learned elders of zion are 100% true, lizards rule the world, but they're Jewish

------

https://ivankatrump.com/team-ivanka-street-style-hope/

Hicks was director of communications for Trump org

	“In this outfit, I can jump on the shuttle to D.C. to do press for our upcoming hotel and come back to NYC in time for drinks with my boyfriend without having to change.” —Hope Hicks

Promoting Ivanka's shitty clothing line?


------

http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/presidential-races/272565-trump-campaign-goes-after-reporter
	"The accusation, which has only been made in the media and never addressed directly with the campaign, is entirely false," Trump campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks said in a statement, according to ABC News:

	"As one of dozens of individuals present as Mr. Trump exited the press conference, I did not witness any encounter," she said. "In addition to our staff, which had no knowledge of said situation, not a single camera or reporter of more than 100 in attendance captured the alleged incident."

I remember this. A weird way to deny something...

------

http://pagesix.com/2016/05/19/trump-campaign-staffers-get-into-public-screaming-match/
	There’s big drama between the top advisers at the Trump campaign.

	Donald Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks and campaign manager Corey Lewandowski were seen having a public screaming match on the street in Manhattan on Wednesday night.

	Onlookers were stunned to see Hicks, 27, hollering at Lewandowski, 42, in plain view of passersby on 61st Street near Park Avenue.

	One witness told us, “Hope was screaming at Corey, ‘I am done with you!’ It was ugly, she was doubled over with her fists clenched. He stood there looking shocked with his hands on his head.”

She did say she wanted to be an actress...

What exactly was going on here? Did they want Lewendowski out?

	Other sources insist the street showdown was about how to handle the announcement that seasoned political operative Paul Manafort would be taking an even larger role in Trump’s campaign, and how Lewandowski’s role would be defined going forward.

To get Manafort in? who knows

------

http://gawker.com/what-are-the-chances-that-the-trump-campaign-accidental-1778699036

Maybe not so high...

------

https://ballotpedia.org/Hope_Hicks

	After graduating from Southern Methodist University in 2010, Hope Hicks began working for the public relations firm Zeno Group.[3] She then moved to Hiltzik Strategies in New York City. While at Hiltzik, according to The Washington Post, Hicks "began working on accounts related to Trump’s vast real estate, hospitality and fashion ventures." She then moved to the Trump Organization in 2014.[4] Matthew Hiltzik, head of the company, told the New York Post, "She understands the different personalities. Hope has a great work ethic and a constant willingness to learn and adjust — and the right temperament to roll with the punches."[2]

	Hicks began her work in the Trump Organization working with Trump's daughter, fashion designer Ivanka, until early 2015.[3] In addition to doing public relations work with Ivanka, Hicks has modeled her clothing.

in with Trump from the get-go

Of course, could be a coincidence, and that's just how she happened to get involved with Trump

but something fishy about how she arrived there

	In 2016, Ballotpedia identified Hope Hicks as a top influencer by state. 
sounds right
