

https://twitter.com/IgnatiusPost/status/863834876709150720
	Riveting @jacklgoldsmith: Lawyers' usual loyalty reduced by Trump's "mendacity, norm-breaking, and impetuousness"

Why is David Ignatius RTing "riveting" articles by Jack Goldmsith?

article is boring

https://twitter.com/jacklgoldsmith/status/864268674454171654


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-comey-debacle-only-magnifies-the-russia-mystery/2017/05/09/32286ad0-351a-11e7-b4ee-434b6d506b37_story.html
	The Comey putsch heightens the mystery at the center of the Flynn case: Why Trump didn’t react sooner to warnings about Flynn’s involvement with Russia. Why didn’t Trump listen to President Barack Obama’s caution against hiring him? Why did Trump wait 18 days before removing his national security adviser after urgent advice that Flynn could be “blackmailed”?

Ya seems like they try to distract from this story

	After Comey’s dismissal, critics are likely to examine more sharp-edged theories of the Flynn case and other Russia matters. One obvious possibility is that Trump didn’t take action earlier because he already knew about Flynn’s Dec. 29 discussion with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak about sanctions, and knew that Flynn had misrepresented the Kislyak call to Vice President-elect Mike Pence.

	Flynn’s discussion with the Russian ambassador at such a sensitive time, when the United States was punishing Russia for hacking the 2016 election, was arguably a violation of the Logan Act, which bars private meddling during a confrontation with another country. It was “problematic” behavior, as former acting attorney general Sally Yates said in her riveting testimony Monday.

	But the Kislyak call wasn’t a hanging offense, and it probably wasn’t even a prosecutable one. Trump could have said back on Dec. 29 that Flynn had talked with Kislyak in hopes of averting Russian reprisals for U.S. sanctions announced that day. Trump certainly wasn’t shy about crediting President Vladimir Putin on Dec. 30 for his “great move” in not retaliating. Is it really plausible that Trump hadn’t talked to Flynn before posting that tweet? 

Ignatius implying Trump knew Flynn talked to Kislyak about sanctions, Trump lying

	Trump will now appoint a new FBI director whose mission will include investigating Trump himself. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, having recused himself from the Russia investigation, will now face criticism that he reneged on his promise by recommending the firing of the person leading the probe.


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/michael-flynns-fall-tells-a-much-bigger-story/2017/04/27/b9b869c0-2b81-11e7-b605-33413c691853_story.html
	“I was one very lucky kid,” wrote retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn in a 2016 memoir about his bumpy childhood in a working-class Rhode Island family. “I was one of those nasty tough kids, hell-bent on breaking rules for the adrenaline rush and hardwired just enough to not care about the consequences,” he wrote. 

no kidding!

	There are numerous examples of this transition problem. James J. Angleton, the CIA’s legendary counterintelligence chief, was secretive to the point of paranoia when he was at the agency. But when he left in the 1970s, he couldn’t stop talking to journalists and others about his conspiracy theories. Some other former CIA officers are similar: They work the press or lobbying clients the way they used to work their agency assets. 

Doesn't like Angleton? "conspiracy theories" like Kissinger working for the Russians which seems kindof obvious now...

also wtf was kissinger doing here http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/10/politics/donald-trump-henry-kissinger/


what other conspiracy theories did Angleton talk about?


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/trumps-presidency-is-beginning-to-unravel/2017/05/16/e27aa366-3a7a-11e7-8854-21f359183e8c_story.html

	Observing this White House in action is sometimes like watching a horror movie. The “good guys” (and yes, there are a few) keep falling through trap doors. National security adviser H.R. McMaster, whose credibility is precious, struggled Tuesday to defend Trump’s actions in disclosing terrorism information as “wholly appropriate.” He said the president hadn’t even been aware of what country had provided the terrorism information. Israel, reportedly the source country, issued a statement endorsing its “intelligence-sharing relationship” with Trump. 

Ignatius saying McMaster getting crunched by the scandal

	Trump is a daily reminder of why presidents need protocols and talking points. When someone as inexperienced and impulsive as Trump tries to wing it, the result is chaos or worse. The Lawfare blog, one of the most fair-minded chroniclers of national security issues, reviewed the string of Trump’s recent actions involving intelligence and asked whether he was violating his oath to “faithfully execute the Office of President.” That’s a polite way of asking whether he should be impeached. 

why does Ignatius like Lawfare blog. Lawfare blog sucks

	Intelligence issues have been at the center of Trump’s troubles since before the election, animated by a strange mix of anxiety, insecurity and vanity. Last fall, he began calling reports of Russian election meddling a hoax; he later likened intelligence officers to Nazis; after his inauguration, he delivered a smug, self-congratulatory speech at the CIA’s hall of heroes; he reportedly pressed the FBI director, who was leading the Russia investigation, for a declaration of loyalty and then fired him after he didn’t deliver — and allowed the White House to issue a misleading explanation.

	And then Tuesday’s night’s allegation that Trump wanted the FBI to halt the investigation of Flynn, and concentrate instead on leaks. 

	Against this litany, Trump’s garrulous discussion of terrorism with the Russians strikes me as a secondary issue. Presidents get to decide what they want to tell foreign officials. But this incident is another warning light. 

Ignatius saying the disclosure isn't a big deal compared to all this other stuff
