http://www.politico.com/blogs/under-the-radar/2017/08/24/flake-hearing-ninth-circuit-242007
	Flake hearing airs arguments to break up 9th Circuit


Jeff Flake wants to break up 9th Circuit court


	If Flake’s bill passes, it will keep only California, Hawaii, Oregon and the two territorial districts in the 9th Circuit. The rest would form a new 12th Circuit.

	Flake was the only senator in attendance at the hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s subcommittee he chairs on privacy, technology and the law. The five witnesses who testified were divided, 3-2, in favor of breaking up the court.

	Flake said that the 9th Circuit originally served 4 percent of the population but that the population under its jurisdiction had expanded to serve 20 percent of the nation — and continues to expand grow. But size, 9th Circuit Chief Judge Sidney Thomas argued at the hearing, does not hinder the court’s productivity.


	...Some opponents of a breakup, like Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), note that the renewed effort comes on the heels of the 9th Circuit’s blocking some of President Donald Trump’s decisions from going into effect.

	“These efforts have nothing to do with caseload,” Feinstein said in a statement. “In fact, splitting the 9th Circuit would be a huge waste of taxpayer dollars. The simple fact is that calls by President Trump and Senate Republicans to split the 9th Circuit are simply a political response to decisions they don’t like.”

	Trump has issued several angry tweets about the 9th Circuit’s rulings, saying that a disproportionate number are overturned by the Supreme Court.


why is this so important to them?


https://www.law360.com/appellate/articles/957116
	Lawyer Groups Urge Congress To Not Split 9th Circ.

 	Law360, New York (August 23, 2017, 7:33 PM EDT) -- Several lawyer organizations, including the National Bar Association and the National Employment Lawyers Association, on Tuesday urged federal lawmakers not to push forward legislation to split up the Ninth Circuit, arguing that a division would threaten the integrity of the judiciary.


http://www.sacbee.com/opinion/editorials/article165965972.html


9th circuit ruled Trump's travel ban unconstitutional?
