

http://www.millennium-project.org/millennium/jglenn.html
jerome.glenn@millennium-project.org
www.stateofthefuture.org

Jerome C. Glenn is the co-founder (1996) and CEO of The Millennium Project (on global futures research) and lead-author with Elizabeth Florescu, and The Millennium Project Team of the State of the Future reports of the Millennium Project for the past twenty years. He was the Washington, DC representative for the United Nations University as executive director of the American Council for the UNU 1988-2007.

He has over 40 years of Futures Research experience working for governments, international organizations, and private industry in Science & Technology Policy, Environmental Security, Economics, Education, Defense, Space, Futures Research Methodology, International Telecommunications, and Decision Support Systems with the Committee for the Future, Hudson Institute, Future Options Room, and the Millennium Project. He has addressed or keynoted conferences for over 300 government departments, universities, NGOs, UN organizations, and/or corporations around the world on a variety of future-oriented topics.

Recent research includes: Future Work/Technology 2050, Future Elements of the Next Global Economy, National Collective Intelligence System for Egypt, National Future Strategy Units, Global Energy Scenarios for 2020, the Future of Ethics, 2025 Science and Technology Scenarios, and Middle East Peace Scenarios. Glenn was the Deputy Director of Partnership for Productivity International, involved in national strategic planning, institutional design, training, and evaluation in economic development in Africa, the Middle East, Asia, the Caribbean, and Latin America, and created CARINET in 1983 as the leading computer network in the developing world (subsequently bought by CGNet.) He has been an independent consultant for the World Bank, UNDP, UNU, UNESCO, FAO, UNEP, US/EPA, USAID, and several governments and corporations.

Jerome C. Glenn invented the "Futures Wheel" -- a futures assessment technique, Futuristic Curriculum Development, and concepts such as conscious-technology, transinstutions, tele-nations, management by understanding, definition of environmental security, feminine brain drain, just-in-time knowledge and learning, information warfare, feelysis, nodes as a management concept for interconnecting global and local views and actions, and coined the term futuring in 1973. Saturday Review named him among the most unusually gifted leaders of America for his pioneering work in Tropical Medicine (national Leprosy system while a Peace Corp Volunteer), Future-Oriented Education, and Participatory Decision Making Systems in 1974. He was instrumental in naming the first Space Shuttle the Enterprise and banning the first space weapon (FOBS) in SALT II.

He has published over 100 future-oriented articles in such as the Nikkei, ADWEEK, International Tribune, LEADERS, New York Times, McGraw-Hill's Contemporary Learning Series, Current, Royal Society of Arts (RSA) Journal, Foresight, Futures, Technological Forecasting, Futures Research Quarterly, and The Futurist. He is co-editor of Futures Research Methodology version 3.0, author of Future Mind: Merging the Mystical and the Technological in the 21st Century (1989 & 1994), Linking the Future: Findhorn, Auroville, Arcosanti(1979), and co-author of Space Trek: The Endless Migration (1978 & 1979). 

Glenn has a BA in philosophy from American University, an MA in Teaching Social Science - Futuristics from Antioch Graduate School of Education (now Antioch University New England), and was a doctoral candidate in general futures research at the University of Massachusetts. He received the Donella Meadows Metal, Kondratieff Metal, Emerald Citation of Excellence, honorary professorship and doctor's degrees from two universities in South America (Universidad Ricardo Palma and Universidad Franz Tamayo) and is a leading boomerang stunt man. 


sounds like he likes to do futurism mumbo-jumbo?


------


https://twitter.com/JeromeCGlenn/status/821453279548862464
	If Russia affected at least 76,588 out of 135,657,507, or 0.056% of the voters, then Hillary won -- Huffington Post .

Maybe? a bit more complicated than that...

would they want people to think the election is illegitimate and fight over if Hillary won or not?


https://twitter.com/JeromeCGlenn/status/849765347829960704
	Could top sociologists design and conduct unassailable research to show Russia's and/or organized crime's impact on US voters over time


https://twitter.com/JeromeCGlenn/status/814873953801998336
	30 Dec 2016

	The Supreme Court should declare the US election manipulation by Russia unconstitutional violation and call for new elections.


https://twitter.com/JeromeCGlenn/status/821412454496423937
	@RussiaFactor #RussiaFactor Gore-Bush election went to the Supreme Court, why not the current election going to the Supreme Court?


------

http://www.eccssa.org/id73.htm
	He invented the "Futures Wheel" a futures assessment technique, Futuristic Curriculum Development, and concepts
such as conscious-technology, transinstutions, tele-nations, management by understanding, definition of environmental
security, feminine brain drain, just-in-time knowledge and learning, information warfare, feelysis, nodes as a management
concept for interconnecting global and local views and actions, and coined the term futuring in 1973. Saturday Review
named him among the most unusually gifted leaders of America for his pioneering work in Tropical Medicine (national Leprosy system while a Peace Corp Volunteer), Future-Oriented Education, and Participatory
Decision Making Systems in 1974. He was instrumental in naming the first Space Shuttle the Enterprise
 and banning the first space weapon (FOBS) in SALT II.

"futuring"


http://allnewspipeline.com/Davos_Devils_Openly_Push_NWO_Agenda.php
	Starting with the most concerning page I found linked on the "Global Strategic Foresight Community - Members' Perspectives On Global Shifts" URL is linked to the image, third row down, far right, leading to a page titled  "The Age of Conscious-Technology," with a subtitle of "Can We Envision the Future We Want While We Still Have Time to Shape It?" from Jerome Glenn, The Millennium Project. 


http://www.activistpost.com/2012/06/us-government-gives-un-classified-tesla.html
	The UN admonishes carbon dioxide emissions as the direct causation to global warming (although this theory has been debunked by empirical scientific data). With wireless energy transmission, Jerome Glenn, director of the Millennium Project, claims they will avert a “potentially catastrophic” global problem “and eventually open up new energy sources such as solar panels in Earth’s orbit.”


http://www.newswithviews.com/Horn/thomas150.htm
	Synthetic biologists forecast that as computer code is written to create software to augment human capabilities, so too genetic code will be written to create life forms to augment civilization. —Jerome C. Glenn 


http://www.countercurrents.org/glenn190812.htm
	"The World Is Improving Better Than Pessimists Know,
But Dangers Are Worse Than Optimists Indicate"

	By Jerome C. Glenn

	18 August, 2012
	The Millenium Project

	What’s happening that will change the world for better or worse? What do we need to know now to build a better future? The Millennium Project releases the 2012 State of the Future report – the annual “Report Card on the World.”


http://www.rense.com/ufo/rockerfellerufo.htm


http://www.countercurrents.org/owen140709.htm


https://ufoholic.com/news/we-need-three-planets-for-the-human-race-to-survive-nasa-scientist-determines/


------


https://www.theglobalist.com/author/jglenn/

"the globalist"

mostly scientific mumbo jumbo
