

https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/27/us/politics/senate-jared-kushner-russia.html

In March, reported Kushner met with Kislyank in early Decemeber in Trup tower, Flynn also attended.

Kislyak requests another meeting, asks Kushner to meet Gorkov ov Vnesheconombank, under sacntions

WH spokeswomen Hope Hicks confirmed the meetings, says they were routine diplomatic encounters.

article (Jo Becker, Matthew Rosenberg, Maggie Haberman) implying Kushner could have been blackmailed at or due to these meetings?

	Mr. Kislyak’s contacts with Trump administration officials have proved problematic: Mr. Flynn was fired for misleading Vice President Mike Pence about the nature of the conversations he had with the Russian envoy, claiming he had not discussed the sanctions against Russia when communications intercepts showed he had.

article raises suspision of meeting with Gorkov, mentions he is basically a spy

	Mr. Kushner had not yet stepped aside as chief executive of Kushner Companies, which was trying to attract investment for the company’s crown jewel, an overleveraged Manhattan office tower on Fifth Avenue. The company was in the midst of negotiations to redevelop the building with Anbang Insurance Group, a Chinese company with ties to the Beijing government.


article says senate wants to ask Kushner if he met with Gorkov to get more funding for his company building

	And in an interview on the state-owned Rossiya 24 TV channel on Dec. 29, the same month that he met with Mr. Kushner, Mr. Gorkov said he hoped that the situation caused by Ukraine sanctions imposed by the Americans against Russian banks like his “would change for the better.”


implying some sort of shady deal involving Ukraine sanctions


	The extent of Mr. Kushner’s interactions with Mr. Kislyak caught some senior members of Mr. Trump’s White House team off guard, in part because he did not mention them last month during a debate then consuming the White House: how to handle the disclosures about Mr. Flynn’s interactions with the Russian ambassador.

	Ms. Hicks said that Mr. Trump had authorized Mr. Kushner to have meetings with foreign officials that he felt made sense, and to report back to him if those meetings produced anything of note. She said that because in Mr. Kushner’s view the meetings were inconsequential, it did not occur to him to mention them to senior staff members earlier.

Interesting, Hicks saying that Trump didn't know of Kushner's meetings? that "nothing consequential" happened. But it seems like something happened with the whole secret back-channel thing

------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/russian-ambassador-told-moscow-that-kushner-wanted-secret-communications-channel-with-kremlin/2017/05/26/520a14b4-422d-11e7-9869-bac8b446820a_story.html

	Jared Kushner and Russia’s ambassador to Washington discussed the possibility of setting up a secret and secure communications channel between Trump’s transition team and the Kremlin, using Russian diplomatic facilities in an apparent move to shield their pre-inauguration discussions from monitoring, according to U.S. officials briefed on intelligence reports.


discussed possibility, but did they set anything up?

	Ambassador Sergey Kislyak reported to his superiors in Moscow that Kushner, son-in-law and confidant to then-President-elect Trump, made the proposal during a meeting on Dec. 1 or 2 at Trump Tower, according to intercepts of Russian communications that were reviewed by U.S. officials. Kislyak said Kushner suggested using Russian diplomatic facilities in the United States for the communications.

So according to WaPo, according to intel sources, according to Kislyak, Kushner propsed the back-channel

So layers of hearsay... sounds this is based on what Kislyak is saying in Moscow in a way he knows will be monitored, not the meeting itself.

meeting suspicious anyway since FBI investigating, Kislyak and Kushner suspicious, and reportedly Kislyak did ask Kushner to go meet Gorka later

	Kislyak reportedly was taken aback by the suggestion of allowing an American to use Russian communications gear at its embassy or consulate — a proposal that would have carried security risks for Moscow as well as the Trump team.

Kislyak intercepted as acting shocked by "the suggestion" (by Kushner?) for Kushner to use Russian coms at Russian embassy

	Neither the meeting nor the communications of Americans involved were under U.S. surveillance, officials said.

So they just have intercepts of Russians talking to each other

	Russia at times feeds false information into communication streams it suspects are monitored as a way of sowing misinformation and confusion among U.S. analysts. But officials said that it’s unclear what Kislyak would have had to gain by falsely characterizing his contacts with Kushner to Moscow, particularly at a time when the Kremlin still saw the prospect of dramatically improved relations with Trump.

So it could all be fake, but it's weird

I have some ideas...

	Kushner’s apparent interest in establishing a secret channel with Moscow, rather than relying on U.S. government systems, has added to the intrigue surrounding the Trump administration’s relationship with Russia. 

Authors seem to accept Kislyak's account as legit?

	Obama administration officials say members of the Trump transition team never approached them about arranging a secure communications channel with their Russian contacts, possibly because of concerns about leaks.

	The State Department, the White House National Security Council and U.S. intelligence agencies all have the ability to set up secure communications channels with foreign leaders, though doing so for a transition team would be unusual. 

yup

	Russia would also have had reasons of its own to reject such an overture from Kushner. Doing so would require Moscow to expose its most sophisticated communications capabilities — which are likely housed in highly secure locations at diplomatic compounds — to an American.

Ok so saying Kushner asked Kislyak to use Russian comms (according to Kislyak)

	The Post was first alerted in mid-December to the meeting by an anonymous letter, which said, among other things, that Kushner had talked to Kislyak about setting up the communications channel. This week, officials who reviewed the letter and spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive intelligence said the portion about the secret channel was consistent with their understanding of events.

So WaPo has another source--not just Kislyak, this anonymous letter

and these officials who reviewed the letter?

	For instance, according to those officials and the letter, Kushner conveyed to the Russians that he was aware that it would be politically sensitive to meet publicly, but it was necessary for the Trump team to be able to continue their communication with Russian government officials.

Wait, so did these officials and the letter say Kushner wanted to set up a secret back-channel or not?

	In addition to their discussion about setting up the communications channel, Kushner, Flynn and Kislyak also talked about arranging a meeting between a representative of Trump and a “Russian contact” in a third country whose name was not identified, according to the anonymous letter. 

OK, so saying that this letter agrees with Kislyak, and officials say the letter is at least "consistent" with what they know, and Kislyak and the letter say Kushner wanted to set up the secret comms channel. Letter also says Kislyak, Flynn, and Kushner also wanted to meet a "Russian contact" in another country
.

Implies that this was Erik Prince


------

https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/29/us/politics/jared-kushner-russia-investigation.html?_r=0

	Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, was looking for a direct line to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia — a search that in mid-December found him in a room with a Russian banker whose financial institution was deeply intertwined with Russian intelligence, and remains under sanction by the United States.

Interesting, unlike WaPo article, doesn't talk at all about sources

	Federal and congressional investigators are now examining what exactly Mr. Kushner and the Russian banker, Sergey N. Gorkov, wanted from each other. The banker is a close associate of Mr. Putin, but he has not been known to play a diplomatic role for the Russian leader. That has raised questions about why he was meeting with Mr. Kushner at a crucial moment in the presidential transition, according to current and former officials familiar with the investigations.

So sources say FBI wants to know what Kushner and Gorkov wanted out of the meeting. Sure, makes sense.

	But the half-hour meeting with Mr. Gorkov since has come under increasing scrutiny. The current and former American officials now say it may have been part of an effort by Mr. Kushner to establish a direct line to Mr. Putin outside established diplomatic channels.

So saying Kushner might have been meeting with Gorkov to set-up his secret back-channel

	In March, Mr. Gorkov said in a statement that his December meeting with Mr. Kushner was part of the bank’s strategy to discuss promising trends and sectors with influential financial institutions in Europe, Asia and the United States. That statement said he met with representatives of “business circles of the U.S., including with the head of Kushner Companies, Jared Kushner.” At the time, Mr. Kushner was still running the company, which is his family’s real estate business.

Gorkov making the meeting sound sketchy

	But days earlier, responding to questions from The Times about the meetings with Mr. Kislyak and Mr. Gorkov, Ms. Hicks said the meetings were part of an effort by Mr. Kushner to improve relations between the United States and Russia, and to identify areas of possible cooperation.

	After the first meeting with Mr. Kislyak, she said at the time, the Russian ambassador asked for a follow-up discussion to “deliver a message.” Mr. Kushner sent Avrahm Berkowitz, a longtime associate and now a White House aide. At that session, Mr. Kislyak told Mr. Berkowitz that he wanted Mr. Kushner to meet Mr. Gorkov, Ms. Hicks said.

	Ms. Hicks did not say at the time why Mr. Kislyak had wanted to arrange a meeting between Mr. Kushner and Mr. Gorkov. But she said then that during Mr. Kushner’s meeting with Mr. Gorkov, there was no discussion about the Kushner company’s business or about American sanctions against Russian entities like Vnesheconombank.


Hicks confirms meetings, denies there were any discussions of sanctions


------


http://www.cnn.com/videos/tv/2017/05/30/sources-fbi-reviewing-kushner-meeting-with-russian-banker-the-lead-jessica-schneider.cnn

FBI scrutinizing Kushner Russian banker meeting

------

https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/29/us/politics/jared-kushner-russia-investigation.html


http://www.cnn.com/videos/tv/2017/05/30/gop-senator-questions-kusher-deal-marketing-cristina-alesci-reports-the-lead-coiw.cnn/video/playlists/conflict-of-interest-watch/

Grassley scrutinizing Kushner's familiy's business, associated with Chinese company
