https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/post-partisan/wp/2016/11/15/why-mike-rogerss-departure-from-the-trump-team-is-alarming/

Rogers cleared Hillary in Bengazi (for good reasons?)

Was on Trump transition team (brought on by Christie), ousted, replaced by Nunes


"He was mentioned as a possible next director of the CIA or director of national intelligence." by who?


According to GOP insiders, the most likely picks for CIA director include Nunes and former Rep. Pete Hoekstra (Mich.), who served on the House intelligence panel; former Defense Intelligence Agency chief Lt. Gen. Mike Flynn is being considered as well, though there are doubts he could be confirmed. A wild card mentioned by one source is former Defense Department official Frank Gaffney. All four are known as combative personalities who disdain the bipartisan approach that Rogers represented.

All awful picks, probably spies?

Other articles by Ignatius:
http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/rex-tillerson-is-off-to-an-agonizingly-slow-start/2017/03/09/32858980-050f-11e7-b9fa-ed727b644a0b_story.html
Rex Tillerson is off to an agonizingly slow start

The secretary of state could be a voice for sound international strategy, but first he must cement his relationship with Mr. Trump.

------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_S._Rogers
In his first public remarks as NSA director, Rogers stated that he believed that NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden was "probably not" working for a foreign intelligence agency, despite frequent speculation and assertion by the NSA's allies to the contrary. Rogers added: "He clearly believes in what he's doing. I question that; I don't agree with it. I fundamentally disagree with what he did. I believe it was wrong; I believe it was illegal."[12]

The Washington Post reported on 19 November 2016 that Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter and Director of National Intelligence (DNI) James R. Clapper Jr. had recommended to President Obama that Rogers be terminated as director of the National Security Agency. Carter reportedly recommended he be terminated due to poor performance, whereas Clapper considered it wise that the position be held by a civilian. Both Clapper and Carter had put Rogers on notice for poor performance in internal security and for a poor leadership style. His termination was reportedly delayed due to stalled changes to the bureaucratic structure of the intelligence community. Later, Rogers reportedly met with President-elect Donald Trump without notifying his supervisors in what is an unprecedented action for a military officer. Trump was reportedly considering replacing Clapper with Rogers as DNI, however that position went to former Senator Dan Coats, with Rogers remaining NSA director.[13]

suspicious...

------

https://www.wsj.com/articles/former-house-intel-chief-mike-rogers-to-play-big-role-on-donald-trumps-transition-team-1470770808
WASHINGTON—Former House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers (R., Mich.) will play a senior role on Donald Trump’s presidential transition team, advising on national-security matters, several people familiar with the matter said.

------

Why did they keep rogers? wanted him to be DNI, gave to coats instead, left Rogers in NSA (or cybercom?)
