http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/clinton-ally-says-smoke-no-fire-no-russia-trump-collusion-n734176
 	Mar 16 2017,

	 Former Acting CIA Director Michael Morell, who endorsed Hillary Clinton and called Donald Trump a dupe of Russia, cast doubt Wednesday night on allegations that members of the Trump campaign colluded with Russia.

	Morell, who was in line to become CIA director if Clinton won, said he had seen no evidence that Trump associates cooperated with Russians. He also raised questions about the dossier written by a former British intelligence officer, which alleged a conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia.

	His comments were in sharp contrast to those of many Clinton partisans — such as former communications director Jennifer Palmieri — who have stated publicly they believe the Trump campaign cooperated with Russia’s efforts to interfere in the election against Clinton. 

	 Morell said he had learned that the former officer, Christopher Steele, paid his key Russian sources, and interviewed them through intermediaries.

	"On the question of the Trump campaign conspiring with the Russians here, there is smoke, but there is no fire, at all," Morell said at an event sponsored by the Cipher Brief, an intelligence web site. 


	... Morell pointed out that former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said on Meet the Press on March 5 that he had seen no evidence of a conspiracy when he left office January 20.

	"That’s a pretty strong statement by General Clapper," Morell said. 


what's he doing here?

this affect Trump's assessment of Comey/ the Russia investigation maybe?

------


http://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-reveals-classified-information-russians-oval-office-report-michael-morell/

a more subtle attack on McMaster, basically deciding he's wrong even though he was at the talk...


------


http://theweek.com/speedreads/672826/former-cia-chief-suggests-that-intelligence-must-believe-parts-trump-russia-dossier
	Clapper also told Trump he does "not believe the leaks came from within" the U.S. intelligence community. On CNN on Wednesday, former acting CIA Director Michael Morell said that's likely true, noting that the dossier released by BuzzFeed was raw intelligence from a former British spy and not the two-page summary presented to Trump last Friday (also, U.S. intelligence agents would likely have been more careful redacting sensitive information).

	CNN's Christiane Amanpour asked what we can learn from this development. "I was a bit surprised that our intelligence community would take a private document and summarize it for the president and president-elect if they didn't know anything about the credibility of the information in it — that would be, quite frankly, unprecedented," Morell said.


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/there-is-a-second-sacred-wall-at-the-cia-trump-disrespects-that-one-every-day/2017/01/29/d1961480-e675-11e6-bf6f-301b6b443624_story.html?utm_term=.1bcaaee5743c


A CIA assessment assessed that Donald Trump disrespected 100% of the sacred walls at the CIA
