https://fas.org/irp/congress/2007_hr/ruleoflaw.pdf

Senator WHITEHOUSE
. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
I  have  two  questions,  Mr.  Goldsmith.  One  relates  to  the  famous,  
or   infamous,   night   at   the   hospital   that   Senator   Schumer   has   
brought  to  the  world’s  attention  through  the  testimony  of  Deputy  
Attorney  General  Comey.  It  has  to  do  with  some  of  the  individuals  
who were involved that night and how they reacted. 
You’ve  described,  in  your  book,  Deputy  Attorney  General  Comey  
as a ‘‘seasoned prosecutor who thinks clearly in times of crisis, who 
possesses  a  keen  sense  of  proportion  that  is  the  mark  of  good  judg-
ment’’,  and  who  was,  you  said,  ‘‘the  most  level-headed  person  I  
knew in government.’’
Mr. G
OLDSMITH
. Yes, sir. That’s my belief. 
Senator W
HITEHOUSE
. Yes. And Bob Mueller was also engaged in 
the  activities  that  night.  I  view  him  as  of  similar  stature  and  na-
ture. Do you also? 
Mr.   G
OLDSMITH
.   Yes,   sir.   I   have   great   admiration   for   Mr.   
Mueller. 




------



http://www.politico.com/story/2017/08/08/robert-mueller-counsel-financial-records-241414
	Mueller's client list from his former firm, WilmerHale, reads like a who's who of America's most prominent businesses, including Facebook, Apple, Intel, Sony Pictures, Booz Allen Hamilton and the National Football League.

	Mueller was also on the paid-speaking circuit in recent years, addressing businesses like Goldman Sachs, charities and lecture series, as well as lobbying groups like the Nuclear Energy Institute and the Insurance Information Institute.

	Mueller's speaking engagements brought him about $241,000 since the beginning of 2016, the report says. His most lucrative speech during that period was to the Mexican bank Banamex for $52,000.


How does he get $241K a year in paid speaking agreements?

	Mueller's legal work for Facebook is notable because that company could potentially hold valuable data for his investigation.

	Tech industry experts say Facebook and other companies, including Twitter and Google, could help Mueller establish whether there was any coordination or collusion between the Trump campaign officials who had access to critical voter data files — pinpointing key battleground counties and states, and key demographic groups inside them — and the alleged Russian government social media accounts that were pumping out pro-Trump and anti-Hillary Clinton messages at peak moments of the campaign.

	Mueller also may have interest in the direct-messaging features available on Facebook and Twitter, as well as the Gmail accounts the campaigns used via Google. It’s also not uncommon for political operatives to use little-known Twitter handles to communicate information with one another. While congressional Democrats leading their probes into the Russia scandal have been pressing Facebook for answers, it’s unclear whether Mueller has. His office hasn’t commented about its interest in the tech company, and representatives from Facebook have also declined comment.


A concflict there?


	Much of Mueller's work is publicly known, such as his attempting to arrange settlements in hundreds of lawsuits brought against Volkswagen and his high-profile assignment investigating the NFL's response to Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice's knocking unconscious his then-fiancee.


seems sketchy?


	Financial disclosures were also released Tuesday for some lawyers Mueller has hired.

	Aaron Zebley, Mueller’s former FBI chief of staff, left a $1.4 million-a-year job as a partner at WilmerHale to join the special counsel investigation. According to his disclosure, Zebley represented a range of corporate clients that included the NFL, Sony, Walt Disney Co., Apple, Citibank, Facebook, Booz Allen Hamilton, Levi Strauss, Pepsi and Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Massachusetts. He also reported $10,000 in income in 2016 for writing Mueller’s speeches.


Why is this guy following around Mueller and writing his speeches?


	Zebley listed three confidential clients who can’t be named because they are part of an investigation or a grand jury proceeding that isn’t public.

	Another former WilmerHale partner who joined Mueller's office, Jeannie Rhee, has been the focus of critics who contend that her legal work for the Clinton Foundation creates a conflict of interest. The foundation is listed as a client on her disclosure form.

	Her form and the others that were just made public contain a notation from top Justice Department ethics official Cynthia Shaw: "No apparent conflicts of interest."


that is a conflict of interest
