https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/post-staffer-accused-of-impersonating-cop-intends-to-go-to-trial/2017/04/04/d298aeb0-18a2-11e7-bcc2-7d1a0973e7b2_story.html
	Post employee accused of impersonating ICE agent intends to go to trial
	By Rachel Weiner April 4


As far as the Washington Post is a KGB front, sounds like something they would do


	Authorities said Ozderman formed a relationship with Falls Church Detective Jannie Clipp and was seen riding in Clipp’s car last September. But his presence made some on the force ­suspicious.

	“We couldn’t wrap our mind around” why he would be there, Falls Church Police Chief Mary Gavin said in an interview. Ozderman was seen wearing a ballistic vest with an “ICE” placard and with a Baltimore County police badge, according to court records.


is that supposed to be related to his journalistic duties?


	...Gavin said Ozderman was apparently inside the department a few times after hours, when there were not many officers around. But there is no evidence as yet that he handled department equipment.

	...In Ozderman’s home in Gaithersburg, police found a cache of guns, including two M4 assault-style rifles, court records show. Officers also searched a Volkswagen Jetta used by Ozderman and found a loaded Sig Sauer semiautomatic handgun, as well as a Baltimore County police badge, a police ­radio and tactical vests, court ­records show.


wtf was he doing


	...After Monday’s hearing, Circuit Court Judge Daniel S. Fiore II allowed Ozderman out on bond under the condition that he have no access to firearms, make no contact with the Falls Church Police Department in general or Clipp in particular, and stay away from Falls Church’s Eden Center and State Theater.


so this guy gets bond, but not the CIA guy who wants to stay with his family


http://www.wusa9.com/news/local/md-man-impersonated-ice-agent-fooled-va-detective/420662820
	The document alleges Ozderman convinced his girlfriend, Jannie Clipp, a Falls Church detective, that he was "a Baltimore County Police Officer working on an ICE Task Force."

	The warrant says Clipp claimed she was at the Eden Center in Falls Church on September 30, 2016, "conducting surveillance on a target vehicle for an ATF Task Force."


an illegal? this shit sounds like its straight outta "the Americans"


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/he-saw-his-twitter-threats-as-harmless-venting-the-feds-saw-them-as-a-crime/2017/02/26/71703c02-d74d-11e6-b8b2-cb5164beba6b_story.html?utm_term=.fc3994cb1bee


reporting on Kyler Schmitz inciting violence online, pointing out his arrest as "cautionary tale"

	It started after the Orlando shooting last year. As a gay man who had spent nights in clubs such as Pulse, he was terrified and sad. As a longtime supporter of gun control, he was enraged. The way he saw it, Republican lawmakers offered prayers for the dead while ignoring the way they were killed.


	...Originally from St. Paul, Minn.,Schmitz was drawn to the Washington area by an interest in activism

	...He had dozens of Twitter accounts, most of them nonsensical. One retweeted every politician’s use of the word “but” with a tiny picture of poop. Another six or seven had as their avatars a rainbow kitten with a unicorn horn and butterfly wings. On his main account, where he pretended to be a bug-eyed bird, he asked scientists dumb questions about biotechnology.

	It was from that account that he began lobbing threats.


multiple strange twitter accounts?

	...In June, authorities visited Schmitz at his home and told him to cut it out. He said he would never actually use a gun, and tried to explain to them what he thought was mostly a joke. Schmitz says they didn’t make the law clear; the police said in court filings that they made clear he was committing a crime.

	Either way, he knew he was near a line if not over it. What he didn’t realize was that the transgression would not mean an arrest or even a misdemeanor charge but possibly 25 years in prison. Instead of backing away from the danger, he danced around it.

	“Good,” he thought, “Now I have an audience.” He hadn’t been sure anyone would see the tweets; he had only a handful of followers.


maybe he's just crazy...

	...Schmitz is handsome and funny, a little too talkative and trusting for his own good. He calls his GPS monitor “my FitBit,” and jokes that although he lost his job he gained a felony conviction. He thinks a Kyler Schmitz in Montana who accidentally started a forest fire should be grateful for being pushed down on Google.


but otherwise funny and personable?


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/federal-judge-in-virginia-presses-for-evidence-to-support-need-for-trump-travel-ban/2017/02/10/e99202e2-ef17-11e6-9662-6eedf1627882_story.html
	By Rachel Weiner February 10

	A federal judge in Alexandria, Va., pressed the government Friday to produce any evidence that a ban on travel from seven overwhelmingly Muslim countries was necessary on national security grounds.

	...The only evidence provided by the government in the Virginia challenge to the ban that she was considering, she noted, was the order itself.

	On the other hand, Brinkema said, “there is some strong, colorful evidence that the motivations for this order may bump into the establishment clause of the First Amendment” — a reference to freedom of religion.


making a good point that its hard to find Trump's travel ban actually "helps" national security either (easier to argue it hurts it I think?)

	She said there was also “startling evidence” from national security professionals that the order “may be counterproductive to its stated goal” of keeping the nation safe.

	Brinkema cited a letter from a bipartisan group of former high-ranking officials who warned that the ban would aid the Islamic State’s propaganda efforts, endanger troops abroad and damage counterterrorism relationships. 


Weiener mostly sounds pro-America


https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/these-brothers-were-forced-out-by-trumps-executive-order-on-monday-they-moved-to-the-us/2017/02/06/0a150fec-e977-11e6-80c2-30e57e57e05d_story.html
	These brothers were forced out by Trump’s executive order. On Monday, they moved to the U.S.
	By Rachel Weiner and Paul Schemm February 6

	With tears in their eyes and tired smiles, Tareq and Ammar Aziz embraced their father at Dulles International Airport on Monday morning.

	The reunion was a year and a half in the making for the brothers from Yemen, whose hopes to live in the United States seemed uncertain, even impossible, after President Trump signed an executive order banning travelers from their home country and others.


yup


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/who-is-new-acting-attorney-general-dana-boente/2017/01/30/252e398a-e75f-11e6-b82f-687d6e6a3e7c_story.html
	Who is new acting attorney general Dana Boente? 

	By Rachel Weiner and Matt Zapotosky

	“Dana was very circumspect about his politics,” said former assistant U.S. attorney Gene Rossi, now a Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor in Virginia. “I never saw Dana, in the 22 years I worked with him, make what I considered to a political decision. . . . He will try his best to enforce what he thinks is the law.”

	But Rossi added, “If he thought that the executive order was illegal, I doubt very seriously he would have taken the position of acting attorney general.”

	Longtime defense attorney John Zwerling shared that sentiment.

	“I don’t think he would do it if he felt that it was morally wrong to do it,” Zwerling said. “I believe he looked inside himself and decided he could morally and legally defend the position. I don’t know how he votes, but he’s no liberal. The Eastern District of Virginia is a very tough jurisdiction, and he ran it as a very tough jurisdiction.”


an interesting way to introduce Boente?


	...The Trump administration said Boente, who replaced fired acting attorney general Sally Q. Yates, was sworn in about 9 p.m. Monday.

	In an interview, Boente noted that his office had already begun supporting the president’s order against a challenge brought in a Virginia federal court.

	“I was enforcing it this afternoon,” Boente said. “Our career department employees were defending the action in court, and I expect that’s what they’ll do tomorrow, appropriately and properly.”


brought this on himself really


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/us-courts-electronic-surveillance-up-500-percent-in-dc-area-since-2011-almost-all-sealed-cases/2016/10/22/48693ffa-8f10-11e6-9c52-0b10449e33c4_story.html
	U.S. courts: Electronic surveillance up 500 percent in D.C.-area since 2011, almost all sealed cases
	By Spencer S. Hsu and Rachel Weiner October 24, 2016 

	...Electronic exchanges, even absent what was said or written, can help investigators map a wide range of a target’s relationships and the timing and pattern of activities.


a reason for reporting this? the timing?


assuming you might as well consider D.C. as occupied territory at this point


------

also a lot of reporting on ISIS



https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/a-need-for-belonging-led-virginia-man-to-the-islamic-state/2016/08/31/17da25e0-5e44-11e6-af8e-54aa2e849447_story.html
	 By Rachel Weiner September 3, 2016

	First he was a cross-wearing Christian. Then he billed himself as an Italian from New Jersey with slicked-back hair and a fondness for “The Godfather.” After that, he tried to pass himself off as a Mexican who drank Corona and cooked carne asada.

	But it was Joseph Farrokh’s last transformation — into a radical Muslim with plans to join the Islamic State — that has landed him in prison for the next 8 1/2 years.


Who is this Joseph Farrokh fellow with a penchant for "transformations?"


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/cia-gate-crasher-gets-30-day-sentence/2016/08/16/2fdbcfea-63c1-11e6-8b27-bb8ba39497a2_story.html
	 By Rachel Weiner August 16, 2016

	A man who drove his car into a fence at CIA headquarters in Virginia earlier this year explained Tuesday in court that he suffers from bipolar disorder and was experiencing a manic episode at the time.

	“It has always been difficult for myself and my family,” Thomas Luu told a judge in Alexandria federal court as he pleaded guilty to damaging government property. “I’ve been working hard to make changes.”

	Just after 2 a.m. on June 13, Luu rammed his Ford Focus into an eight-foot gate outside the CIA headquarters so hard that the fence broke. When a security officer arrived at the scene, Luu was kneeling on the ground next to his car with his hands behind his head. He told the officer that he had been recruited by the CIA and was trying to get the agency’s attention.


what


	His attorney, Cadence Mertz, told the court Tuesday that Luu has struggled with his mental illness for 15 years. However, she said, he is now getting regular therapy, taking his medication and has reached “a new insight into his illness.”

	Luu was sentenced to 30 days in jail and two years of supervised probation. He will have to pay $1,141.76 in compensation for the broken gate.


lol


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/shadow-campaign-donor-and-mastermind-set-for-sentencing-in-federal-court/2016/08/13/66df47a6-5a52-11e6-9aee-8075993d73a2_story.html
	‘Shadow campaign’ donor and mastermind sentenced to three months behind bars

 	By Mike DeBonis, Ann E. Marimow and Rachel Weiner August 15, 2016

	Jeffrey E. Thompson, the political donor behind the illegal financing of Vincent C. Gray’s 2010 mayoral bid, was sentenced to three months behind bars after a federal judge on Monday rejected arguments from prosecutors who sought only home confinement for the former District government contractor.

	Those prosecutors cited Thompson’s “extraordinary cooperation” in the long-running investigation that uncovered $2.5 million in illegal spending on local and federal campaigns, and attorneys for Thompson, 61, had noted that the once-prominent city contractor “never wavered in his candor” and suffered professionally and personally because of the investigation.

	...“He was the leader, organizer, and mastermind of this conspiracy,” she said, adding that she wanted potential offenders to “think very carefully” before engaging in similar offenses. 


more election rigging?


a lot of these stories are great, but never seem to get promoted on front page of WaPo or reddit?


	His sentencing Monday helps bring to a close a nearly five-year investigation that began with reports of financial misconduct within Gray’s successful 2010 mayoral campaign. A half-dozen people directly related to that campaign have since pleaded guilty to federal charges.

	The probe also revealed illegal spending by Thompson on the 2006 D.C. mayoral race and a host of D.C. Council races, as well as several congressional campaigns and Hillary Clinton’s 2008 presidential bid. 


hmmm


	In some cases, he funneled money from his companies through friends and relatives who acted as “straw donors” and gave donations directly to candidates. In other cases, he funded parallel “shadow campaigns” that undertook voter registration drives or get-out-the-vote efforts but did not report their spending to campaign finance authorities as required.


even after making election influence legal, they still find a way to break the law


	...“His corruption and criminality was so pervasive and so corrosive of politics here that the very fact that he was rooted out was of great benefit to the city,” Cheh said of Thompson. But “the prosecution should have been proportionate to the criminality that was discovered ... It certainly merited more given the extensiveness of his corruption.”


"the extensiveness of the corruption"


	...The Washington Post revealed that the broader campaign finance probe was stalled for months as investigators questioned witnesses about the ages of Thompson’s sexual partners to determine whether he had committed a crime.


a way to be blackmailed?


------


if there's any secret CIA sources in WaPo, weienr sounds like one


or just one of the few reporters intel sources trust is not a KGB agent


https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/this-ms-13-member-laughed-when-he-recalled-the-killing-now-hes-going-to-prison-for-life-plus-20-years/2016/08/10/7dec0be8-5f14-11e6-af8e-54aa2e849447_story.html
	This MS-13 member laughed when he recalled the killing. Now he’s going to prison for life plus 30 years.
	By Rachel Weiner August 10, 2016


Seems to be a fan of justice. Has a nice way of wording some of her articles.
