www.newsobserver.com/news/politics-government/state-politics/article135786723.html
	Burr told TWC News that he “didn’t do anything inappropriate or in any way compromise the integrity of the investigation.”

	He said he talked with two reporters about a New York Times article describing phone records and call logs that indicated Trump campaign aides had spoken with Russian intelligence officials ahead of the election. Burr said he’d called FBI officials who told him there were no such records.

	“There was no classification of the information” he received from the FBI, he said in the TV interview. “I believe that when you hear something that’s false, you have an obligation to go out and say it.”

	Burr was also asked if he thinks a special prosecutor is needed in the investigation of possible Trump ties to Russia. “If at the end of (the Intelligence Committee’s probe) we found a reason to have a special prosecutor, I would gladly go out and call for one,” he said. “But there’s been nothing to suggest that this rises to the level of a special prosecutor.”

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Burr
	Burr voted against the financial reform bill Restoring American Financial Stability Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank).[28] In the June 26 debate, he stated: "I fear we're headed down a path that will be too overburdensome, too duplicative, it will raise the cost of credit ... The balance that we've got to have is more focus on the products that we didn't regulate ... more so than government playing a bigger role with a stronger hand".[citation needed]

	In fall 2008, during that year's financial crisis, Burr described his response to problems in the U.S. financial system: "On Friday night, I called my wife and I said, 'Brooke, I am not coming home this weekend. I will call you on Monday. Tonight, I want you to go to the ATM machine, and I want you to draw out everything it will let you take. And I want you to go tomorrow, and I want you to go Sunday.' I was convinced on Friday night that if you put a plastic card in an ATM machine the last thing you were going to get was cash."[29] This statement attracted attention from the national press when an April 2009 story in the News and Observer made it more widely known.[30] In late April, Burr told WFAE, a public radio station in North Carolina, "Absolutely I'd do it [again]." He said that "The exact situation we were faced with was a freeze bank to bank. And as I stated, my attempt was to make sure my wife had enough cash at home to make it through the next week." Burr also said that "It was not an attempt to run a bank," and "Nor was it a bank that was even considered then or now to be in trouble."

??? A weird thing to say.

	In 2014, Burr sponsored the Patient Choice, Affordability, Responsibility and Empowerment Act along with Senator Orrin Hatch. The bill is intended to provide an alternative health care reform system to the Affordable Care Act, according to Ripon Advance. The bill would repeal the Affordable Care Act and implement provisions related to consumer protections, pre-existing conditions, and “consumer-directed healthcare measures."[53]

Burr working with Hatch?

	Burr opposes the regulation of the tobacco industry by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).[54] During the 108th Congress, Burr proposed the National Uniformity for Food Act, which would have banned states from forcing manufacturers to include labels other than those that are required by the Food and Drug Administration on consumables and health and beauty products.[55] A similar bill passed the House, but it died in the Senate.

Supports "states rights" for the minimum wage (I think the very situation the commerce clause is there to avoid...) but not this? hmmm...

Sounds like a corporate shill? Although he opposed the TPP (initially though?) Maybe TPP was always unpopular in NC.

	Senator Burr opposed a vote to confirm U.S. Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland and blocked the nomination of Patricia Timmons-Goodson to fill a vacancy on the federal court bench in Eastern North Carolina,[56][57] which, he proudly notes, is the longest federal court bench vacancy in US history.[58] Burr said that if Hillary Clinton is elected president he would try to block her from ever filling the Supreme Court vacancy,[58] saying "I am going to do everything I can do to make sure four years from now, we still got an opening on the Supreme Court."[58][59]

wtf?

	In April 2016, following the FBI–Apple encryption dispute in the same year, a discussion draft of a bill sponsored by Burr and Senator Dianne Feinstein was leaked. The bill would require technology companies to design their encryption so that they can provide law enforcement with user data in an "intelligible format" when required to do so by court order

Sponsering this with Feinstein mean anything?


--------


http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2017/03/29/richard-burr-s-conversion-means-senate-s-russia-probe-looks-like-the-real-deal.html

	Sen. Richard Burr has become a believer.

	The Republican chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee—who endorsed Trump, voted for Trump and served on Trump’s national security advisory council during the campaign—will preside Thursday over the first open hearings on Russian “active measures” against its adversaries. In stark contrast to their House counterparts, Burr holds the unflinching faith of Democratic Vice Chairman, Sen. Mark Warner. The two men stood together Wednesday afternoon at the front of a packed, sweaty Capitol press gallery.

	“I have confidence in Richard Burr, that we, together with the members of the committee, are going to get to the bottom of this,” Warner said. “If you get nothing else from today, take that statement to the bank.”

ehhh what's goin on


--------

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/01/senate-russia-hacking-investigation-trump-233836
	Sen. Mark Warner couldn’t believe what his Republican counterpart on the Senate Intelligence Committee had just done.

	With no advance notice, Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) declared to reporters that his panel wouldn’t look into possible collusion between Donald Trump’s campaign and Moscow as part of its investigation of Russian interference in the election. So Warner, a Virginia Democrat who is the panel’s ranking member, promptly enlisted every Democrat on the committee to oppose Burr’s move and presumably boycott the investigation if he didn't reverse himself, according to congressional sources. 

http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2017/03/27/will-the-senate-save-the-russia-probe.html

	Will the Senate Save the Russia Probe?
	As the House intel probe descends into chaos, the Senate prepares for its own open hearings this week on Russian interference in U.S. elections.
