http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2017/05/11/donald-trump-slams-james-comey-showboat-says-fbi-turmoil/
	He also admitted the Russia investigation was on his mind when he decided to fire him.

	"In fact when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, I said you know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story, it's an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election that they should have won," he said.


	...Mr Trump's character assassination came as associates of Mr Comey said the president summoned Mr Comey to the White House two weeks after his inauguration and asked him to pledge his loyalty to him. 

	The FBI director declined to make that pledge, it has been claimed, and told him instead that he would be “honest” but not “reliable” in the political sense.


doesn't seem like a particularly kremlin angle on the firing?



------


http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/libya/12184592/US-drawing-up-plans-for-Libya-air-assault-using-faulty-intelligence.html
	US planning to strike Isil in Libya based on 'faulty intelligence'

	 The United States is basing plans for military intervention in Libya on faulty intelligence, Western officials and country experts have told the Sunday Telegraph.

	American intelligence agencies assess that the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) has doubled in size in Libya, with between 5,000 and 6,500 fighters in the country.

	Privately, however, some US officials say they believe these estimates to be overblown. Independent experts have come to the same conclusion.

	"The estimates of the number of jihadists is grossly exaggerated,” said Karim Mezran, a Libya expert with the Atlantic Council in Washington.

	Whilst Mr Mezran and other analysts were loathe to put a number on the size of the organisation, citing the chaos and lack of access to Isil areas in Libya, all said they believed the real figure to be only 20 to 40 per cent of the US estimate.

	Isil’s presence on Libya’s coast - just 300 miles from Italy – has caused deep concern among Western governments. 


this true?


	...But senior US officials familiar with Libya and other in country experts said they feared the Pentagon was pushing for military action based on a miscalculation in the size and nature of the threat.

	They said that a United Nations report in December – which estimated there were some 2,000 Isil fighters in Libya – was probably more accurate than the declassified US intelligence assessment. 


who said that?


why would U.N. have better intel than CIA?


	Claudia Gazzini, a senior analyst for International Crisis Group, who recently travelled to Libya said that testimony she had gathered from refugees fleeing Sirte, Isil's only major stronghold, indicated that "the number of Isil militants that are controlling the city are in the hundreds, not in the thousands". 

	...Ms Gazzini said: “The threat of Isil in Libya is of great concern, but rushing with an international military intervention would be short sighted and probably backfire.” 


Isn't that what happened?


------


http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2017/05/09/james-comey-gave-wrong-information-congress-testimony-hillary/
	The FBI letter said Ms Abedin “manually forwarded” two email chains containing classified information to Mr Weiner’s account. But it does not say if the information was classified at the the time it was sent.

	The letter follows reports in US media that Mr Comey's testimony was misleading..
