http://www.ifeveryoneknew.com/read?article=7
	Extensive excerpts of testimony implicating J.P. Morgan, the Du Pont interests, Remington Arms, and others were removed from hearing transcripts by the The McCormack-Dickstein Committee.[5] However, Committee Chairman Samuel Dickstein unwittingly granted access to the unedited transcripts to a reporter for an upcoming story[5], which was printed in the New Masses magazine[11]. Despite the expunged testimony being printed in the press, full unedited transcripts of the McCormack-Dickstein Committee’s hearings cannot be found to this day.[4]


New Masses being Communist propaganda

Interesting that Dickstein helped implicate people in the "business plot"


------

https://cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/05/22/a-street-named-for-a-soviet-spy-goes-largely-unnoticed/?mcubz=0
	Mr. Dickstein, a Democrat, was famous in the 1930s for pursuing radicals as vice chairman of a House subcommittee on un-American activities and chairman of the immigration committee. In 1934, he hosted a delegation of Communists at his home. They were greeted with pink-hued subpoenas to appear before the panel.


Dickstein running a Communist honey-pot?


	...A Council spokesman said that so far, at least, no one had asked that the name be rescinded in a neighborhood that was once a Socialist hotbed, where a gay bar goes by the name Eastern Bloc, and where an apartment building called Red Square is adorned with a statue of Lenin.


Communists took over Manhattan neighborhood?


------


http://spartacus-educational.com/Samuel_Dickstein.htm
	After the USA declared war on the Central Powers in 1917, the government passed the Espionage Act. Under this act it was an offence to make speeches that undermined the war effort. Criticized as unconstitutional by London, the act resulted in the imprisonment of many of the anti-war movement. This included the arrest of left-wing political figures such as Eugene V. Debs, Bill Haywood, Philip Randolph, Victor Berger, John Reed, Max Eastman, and Emma Goldman. 


interesting, was this what they were going for with Dickstein, HUAC? a good way to get citizens angry at the government, especially with unpopular war. They did get internment. Kindof played out with Vietnam war too.



------


https://www.newspapers.com/newspage/116940238/
	Agnes Smedley, is "a spy and agent of the Soviet government." The paragraphs devoted to Miss Smedley. a journalist who has spent many years in China, give no supporting proof for this charge. The reader gathers the charge is based on the statements of the two convicted spies, Richard Sorge and Osako Hozumi. Aside from the moral and ethical implications, there is reason to doubt whether the unprecedented approach of the Tokyo report is the way to defeat espionage. By publishing the report the author-sponsors seem to be saying the public must be stirred up to catch spies. Communist Treachery !' Was Exposed Long Ago In both his sermon and his statement on the ordeal of Cardinal Mindszenty, Cardinal Spellman referred to phases of Communist treachery in the United States which were exposed long ago. Although a small group of journalists and some pamphleteers did good work, the house committee on un-American activities, first under Martin Dies and most recently under J. Parnell Thomas, amassed a great library of proof. An earlier committee under Samuel Dickstein, of New York, ignored the Communist conspiracy almost entirely and concentrated on the Nazi agents and Nazi sympathizers. Unlike Dickstein, who seemed to underrate the Communist peril. Chairmen Dies and Thomas impartially went after both nazi-fascism and communism.


------


https://forum.axishistory.com//viewtopic.php?t=189124
	Dickstein, not I, is one of the country's biggest enemies. I think he is a spy for Soviet Russia ... Dickstein is a Jew, born in Russia. I consider myself a better type of citizen than he is.


funny

Fritz seems like a Soviet spy too


------


https://history.state.gov/historicaldocuments/frus1934v02/d413


interesting--germany upset at dickstein?


I guess could be part of a plan to have U.S. "help" with the war


diplo hit would also make it harder for U.S. to stop Hitler atrocities...
