https://www.mediamatters.org/research/2016/12/22/trump-brings-his-slimy-social-media-director-dan-scavino-white-house/214901
	President-elect Donald Trump’s newly announced assistant to the president and director of social media, Dan Scavino, frequently used social media while working on the Trump campaign to share links from sites that push fake news and conspiracy theories. He was also responsible for an anti-Semitic Trump campaign tweet and routinely attacked Fox News host Megyn Kelly, who cited Scavino as a reason she received death threats during the campaign.


------


http://www.politico.com/story/2017/04/dan-scavino-justin-amash-liability-trump-freedom-caucus-236780
	A senior adviser to President Donald Trump on Saturday urged a primary challenge against a House Freedom Caucus member, prompting charges that he may have violated federal law against using his official position to sway an election campaign.

	Dan Scavino Jr., director of social media and senior White House adviser, tweeted that Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.) is a "big liability" for his state and encouraged a GOP primary opponent to oust him in 2018.

	".@realDonaldTrump is bringing auto plants & jobs back to Michigan. @justinamash is a big liability. #TrumpTrain, defeat him in primary," Scavino wrote.



------

https://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2016-11-11/trump-s-original-four-the-staffers-behind-his-historic-victory
	As a 16-year-old, Scavino had ambitions to work for Trump, and climbed his way up through the company to become a general manager. Scavino, a devout Catholic, is now so close to the Trumps that the campaign staff said they view him as more like a member of the family.

	When Trump weighed who to take with him to Washington on Thursday to meet President Barack Obama and begin his transition to power, he tapped Scavino, Hicks, and Gigicos.


------


http://www.mediaite.com/online/trumps-social-media-director-in-the-evenings-trumps-the-one-tweeting/
	He confirmed what Trump himself has said before about tweeting in the evenings, but gave viewers new information regarding what, exactly, his position as social media director is all about. As it turns out, he is just a fiercely loyal former employee of Trump’s who started his career with the mogul as his golf caddy. His purpose there is to act as a sounding board and type out the tweets with Trump is busy.

	He assured viewers that all of Trump’s tweets are direct from the frontrunner himself. Whether you see that as a good or bad thing is up to you.


------

http://fortune.com/2016/03/25/trump-scavino-mcconney-social-media/
	Dan Scavino has been the director of social media for the Trump campaign since July 2015, according to an email to Fortune from campaign spokesperson Hope Hicks. He is on the road and posts on social media from the campaign trail. A February 2016 campaign press release said Scavino had "managed the campaign’s social media efforts working directly with Mr. Trump" and described him as a "longtime Trump confidant."

	Scavino didn't respond to a request for comment. Hicks responded to some specific questions with emailed statements. McConney acknowledged an email but would not agree to be quoted for this story.

	...In 2004 he rejoined the Trump National Golf Course as assistant manager, according to an interview with Hudson Valley Magazine. He worked his way up to executive vice president by 2008, according to a company press release. In the Hudson Valley interview, Scavino said he spoke with Trump daily and accompanied him "every other weekend" to Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida.

	He left the Trump Organization in March 2013, according to his LinkedIn profile, and became director of development at the Joe Torre Safe at Home Foundation in September of the same year. Scavino left the foundation in 2015 and started a PR firm with a website created in April 2015, according to registration records.


------

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-hugh-hewitt-media-convention_us_57588c6fe4b0ced23ca6f42a

	NEW YORK — Trump Senior Adviser Dan Scavino Jr. called Thursday for the Republican National Committee to bar Hugh Hewitt from its July convention in Cleveland, following the conservative radio host’s call for Donald Trump to withdraw his candidacy for president. 

    	Assume hater Hugh Hewitt will not be attending the @GOP Convention. If he is - the RNC should BAN him from attending.
    	— Dan Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) June 8, 2016


Trump seems to give him a lot of leeway?

------

http://yorktown.dailyvoice.com/politics/yorktown-native-dan-scavino-gets-post-in-donald-trump-administration/694019/
 	“Sean, Hope, Jason, and Dan have been key members of my team during the campaign and transition. I am excited they will be leading the team that will communicate my agenda that will Make America Great Again,” said Trump in a statement. 

 	Scavino, a Yorktown High School graduate and Hopewell Junction resident, has spent more than half of his life working for Trump, after meeting him at 16 when he was a caddie at Briar Hall Golf Club in Briarcliff.

	Trump would eventually Briar Hall and rename it Trump National. Scavino was later named executive vice president and general manager. 


------

http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/team-trump-members/story?id=38511098


------

http://www.cnn.com/2016/04/29/politics/donald-trump-tweets-daniel-scavino/
	In many ways, Scavino is a near-perfect walking example of a Trump insider. With his slicked hair, custom suits and solid-color ties, he wears the unofficial uniform of Trump's devoted campaign workers. Posts on his own personal Facebook and Twitter pages reveal a man wholly devoted to Trump, a signature calling card of the early adopters of his presidential campaign.


	...Trump's Twitter account, full of random musings, exclamation points, shoot-from-the-hip insults and grammar mistakes, is an unvarnished extension of his public persona. His posts, which can change the course of entire news cycles, break just about every campaign rule. While the previous Republican presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, had a team of more than 20 advisers reviewing every tweet, Trump's musings often come unfiltered, straight from the source. Scavino often only hears about them after they're posted through an alert on his phone. 

	"He doesn't run anything by me," Scavino told CNN. "We're a different campaign."

	When the candidate works from Trump Tower in New York, Scavino said, he usually dictates his tweets to staff members who sit near his office.

	"When he wants to get something out, he'll dictate it out to the girls," Scavino said. 

	Out on the campaign trail, Scavino himself will take the dictation and post it for him.


So sounds like tweets really are from him (and Scavino and Hicks are middle-men sometimes)


	"He's not clicking on peoples' profiles. He doesn't read their bios," Scavino said. "How many people go and check the history of the last 1,000 tweets the guy put out to see what he's saying on other tweets? I don't."
	But what of the account called "@WhiteGenocideTM" a Twitter user with a common rallying crying of white supremacists in the title?
	"He's aware of it now," Scavino said. "Let's put it this way: He'll see a message. He's not reading the handles, necessarily. A lot of it gets blown out of proportion in my opinion only because here you have a man that wants to communicate with the American people, OK? And he's doing that." 

	loyalty

	Because he's spent so much time with Trump over the years, Scavino can seamlessly channel him on social media if need be.

	"I know Mr. Trump's message very clearly, being around him 18 hours a day, traveling around the country," he said. 

"know Trum's message" or writes it...


	When Trump began to take a serious look at a White House bid in 2014, Scavino was about to launch a communication consulting business. At Eric Trump's wedding in November 2014, Scavino approached Trump and pledged to give up his own plans and join the cause.

	"I went up to Mr. Trump and told him I will drop everything I am doing to join you on the campaign trail," Scavino recalled, a promise he fulfilled the next year when he halted development of the website for his new business and hit the road.

	Scavino talks about Trump like a devoted son defends the legacy of a father. As a confidant to a presidential frontrunner, a role that comes with intense media scrutiny and long list of challenges, the job has taken Scavino on an emotional roller coaster as he's watched people call his beloved boss names like, "racist," a "sniveling coward" and a "loser."

	"I take it personal sometimes," Scavino said, a sentiment that comes across on his personal social media accounts, which contain passionate defenses of the Trump brand. "He doesn't deserve a lot of this crap that's being said about him. ... It fires me up. It pisses me off, it really does, because I care about the man and I care about his family." 

	...When asked if there's anything Trump could say or do that would cause Scavino to leave, he replied, "No." 
