http://edition.cnn.com/videos/us/2017/07/07/us-intel-russia-steps-up-spying-prokupecz-nr.cnn
	The US intelligence community is concerned that Russia has stepped up its efforts to spy on the United States since President Trump was elected. CNN's Shimon Prokupecz reports



http://edition.cnn.com/2017/07/06/politics/russia-steps-up-spying-efforts-after-election/index.html
	Russian spies are ramping up their intelligence-gathering efforts in the US, according to current and former US intelligence officials who say they have noticed an increase since the election.



well this isn't about the dossier, secret meetings, or how its all the GOPs fault


legit reporting on Russia maybe?


	"Russians have maintained an aggressive collection posture in the US, and their success in election meddling has not deterred them," said a former senior intelligence official familiar with Trump administration efforts.

	Russians could also be seeking more information on Trump's administration, which is new and still unpredictable to Moscow, according to Steve Hall, retired CIA chief of operations. 


but then they quote Steve Hall saying something stupid

	Since the November election, US intelligence and law enforcement agencies have detected an increase in suspected Russian intelligence officers entering the US under the guise of other business, according to multiple current and former senior US intelligence officials. The Russians are believed to now have nearly 150 suspected intelligence operatives in the US, these sources said. 


that's it?


	Russian spies have tried to gain employment at places with sensitive information as part of their intelligence-gathering efforts, the sources say.

	But that hasn't stopped the State Department from issuing the temporary duty visas — also known as TDY — to the suspected Russian intelligence officers. US intelligence officials who spoke to CNN expressed concerns about the number of temporary visas the State Department has issued to Russian travelers. The issue is not a new one between State and intelligence but has continued even after the intelligence findings of Russia meddling in the US election.


So the State department knows spies are coming in but issues them Visas anyway


	...Even after the meddling in the US elections in 2016, the US has been slow to take measures to respond to the intelligence threat, current and former US officials say.

	Partisan political disagreements over the Russian activity -- and President Donald Trump's reluctance to accept intelligence conclusions about Russia's meddling in the election -- has slowed efforts to counter the threat, current and former officials say. 


So they're saying Trump admin is letting Russian spies run wild


Isn't that a better story than "DON JR. GOT AN EMAIL ONCE LOOK"


	US intelligence is also uneasy about ongoing Russian efforts to infiltrate US infrastructure. At a May Senate hearing on national security threats, top intelligence officials expressed concerns that the widespread use of cyber-security software in the US made by Kaspersky Labs based in Moscow could be used as a tool to accomplish that. The Russian-based company's anti-virus products have become popular in the US consumer market. 


so they also infiltrated U.S. with Kapersky virus


------


http://edition.cnn.com/2017/06/16/politics/james-hodgkinson-list-congressmen/index.html
	List of Republican congressmen found with baseball practice shooter

	By Dana Bash, Shimon Prokupecz and Pete Grieve, CNN


doesn't report the list


-------


http://edition.cnn.com/2017/06/06/politics/russian-hackers-planted-fake-news-qatar-crisis/index.html
	CNN Exclusive: US suspects Russian hackers planted fake news behind Qatar crisis

	By Evan Perez and Shimon Prokupecz, CNN



	...The Qatari government has said a May 23 news report on its Qatar News Agency attributed false remarks to the nation's ruler that appeared friendly to Iran and Israel and questioned whether President Donald Trump would last in office.


actually useful reporting on Russian attempts to divide Qatar and U.S. I guess

	Partly in reaction to the false news report, Qatar's neighbors, led by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, have cut off economic and political ties, causing a broader crisis.

	The report came at a time of escalating tension over accusations Qatar was financing terrorism.


shit this sounds serious I didn't even know about this

Russians trying to start another war in the middle east or something


	On Tuesday, Trump tweeted criticism of Qatar that mirrors that of the Saudis and others in the region who have long objected to Qatar's foreign policy. He did not address the false news report.

	"So good to see the Saudi Arabia visit with the King and 50 countries already paying off," Trump said in a series of tweets. "They said they would take a hard line on funding extremism, and all reference was pointing to Qatar. Perhaps this will be the beginning of the end to the horror of terrorism!"

	In his tweet, Trump voiced support for the regional blockade of Qatar and cited Qatar's funding of terrorist groups. The Qataris have rejected the terror-funding accusations. 


Trump aiding Russian propaganda campaign to shit on Qatar for some reason


	...US intelligence has long been concerned with what they say is the Russian government's ability to plant fake news in otherwise credible streams, according to US officials. 


like most of the U.S. media


still something off about this


why would "hackers" need to plant the fake news? how does that even work?

why not just have a journalist do it?


------


http://edition.cnn.com/2017/05/26/politics/james-comey-fbi-investigation-fake-russian-intelligence/index.html
	Sources: Comey acted on Russian intelligence he knew was fake

	By Dana Bash, Shimon Prokupecz and Gloria Borger, CNN

	...Multiple US officials tell CNN that to this day Russia is trying to spread false information in the US -- through elected officials and American intelligence and law enforcement operatives -- in order to cloud and confuse ongoing investigations.


seems like the kind of thing Russian propagandists wouldn't want to say?


------


http://edition.cnn.com/2017/05/25/politics/fbi-russia-investigation-jared-kushner/index.html
	Points of focus that pertain to Kushner include: the Trump campaign's 2016 data analytics operation; his relationship with former national security adviser Michael Flynn; and Kushner's own contacts with Russians, according to US officials briefed on the probe.

	...The FBI has collected data on computer bots, programs that perform repetitive functions like searches, allegedly linked to Russia that helped target and push negative information on Hillary Clinton and positive information on Donald Trump through Facebook and other social media, the officials say. 


interesting, Kushner teaming up with Barron Trump to pwn the election?


	...Federal investigators have been taking a closer look at the Trump campaign's data analytics operation, which was supervised by Kushner, officials say, and are examining whether Russian operatives used people associated with the campaign -- wittingly or unwittingly -- to try to help Russia's own data targeting. 


So this is interesting news, right? FBI investigatin Russian propagandists doing targeted campaign advertising


but what's *really* interesting is Mark Warner's theory that they found a way to make the computer target ~~individual states~~


------


http://edition.cnn.com/2017/05/12/politics/fbi-trump-russia/index.html
	FBI agents concerned about future of Russia probe

	By Shimon Prokupecz, Eric Lichtblau and Scott Glover, CNN

	Updated 0319 GMT (1119 HKT) May 13, 2017


Prokupecz with Lichtblau on Russia probe after Comey firing


	There is a "general fear that the White House will try to interfere with the investigation" into Russian election meddling, one FBI source said. "The first target will be the leak investigation, and then, long term, if Donald Trump appoints some crony, that could make the whole Russia investigation go away."


makes sense, Trump did have a list of Cronies


	...Meanwhile, current and former agents said the startling way that Comey was fired -- he learned the news from television reports while on a trip to Los Angeles -- infuriated and unified many agents regardless of how they felt about the former FBI director personally.


probably helped people Rally around Comey


	...One street agent also praised Comey to CNN, saying, "Director Comey recognized that street agents were the backbone of the FBI." 


Communism in the FBI? idk it seems like something a communist would do. Appeal to whoever feels they are the least appreciated.

wonder if Comey was actually popular for people not familiar with his work? he made it pretty hard not to be familiar though


mostly reporting on agents angered by firing
