http://www.ifstone.org/collectedifstone.pdf

	The Cost of Anti-Communism

	This is the heart of the Senate’s difficulty. This is why for the sixth time in six years (since the Malmédy inquiry in 1949) the Senate is wearily setting up yet another committee to investigate charges against McCarthy with no more prospect than in the past of a decision. McCarthy is resourceful, unscrupulous and wily, but the Senate is full of politicians as deft and clowns as crafty. They would have brought him down long ago if it were not for the dilemma created by our own demonology. If Communists are some supernatural breed of men, led by diabolic master minds in that distant Kremlin, engaged in a Satanic conspiracy to take over the world and enslave all mankind—and this is the thesis endlessly propounded by American liberals and conservatives alike, echoed night and day by every radio station and in every newspaper, the thesis no American dare any longer challenge without himself becoming suspect—then how fight McCarthy?



So what is Stone saying--it's hard to explain that both Communism and McCarthy are bad?

And therefore this is the "cost of anti-communism"?

Seems to be implying that fighting back will destroy us all, and we have to curb anti-communism "before it's too late?"

Implication here that opposing communism = supporting McCarthy?


------

Organization for Peace . . . Or Against the Soviet Union?


	That tendency, which is very strong, if not dominant, in the American
delegation,  is  to  regard  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  International
Organization as a conference for the organization of an anti-Soviet bloc.

	This  is  not  my  own  opinion  alone.  It  is  the  opinion  privately  held  by
some of the most astute newspapermen here, irrespective of their own polit-
ical orientation. In my own case, this opinion is the net product of my own
estimate of the basic forces at work, of conference gossip, and of an attempt
to find some pattern into which all the diverse pieces will fit.

	But I did not set this down on paper until I found confirmation in trust-
worthy  official  American  quarters  I  may  not  here  identify.  I  can  only  say
that among the younger and more progressive men attached to the Ameri-
can delegation there is increasing apprehension over the extent to which the
conference begins to take on the aspects of an attempt by our delegation to
build an anti-Soviet world coalition.


Stone makes it sound like this is a bad thing


	This dangerous belief that war between the two remaining great powers
of  the  earth,  the  USA  and  the  USSR,  is  inevitable—a  belief  which  can
make it so—has diverse roots.


Why does he say this is a dangerous belief? he doesn't explain... knowing how they operate, it's a reasonable belief. And now they've rigged our election, an act of war.

	The  defeat  of  Germany  has  upset  the  world  balance  of  power.  The
strength of the Soviet Union has both surprised and frightened many lead-
ing  figures  in  the  War  and  Navy  Departments;  the  bureaucracy  of  both
tends to be either politically naive or socially reactionary.

Discrediting with a broad brush, just calls them names but doesn't explain why...


	As early as April 26, Walter Lippmann noted a tendency to assume “that
because Germany is prostrate, the German problem is no longer the para-
mount problem of the world.” He found this reflected in “the fact that the
main preoccupation of so many here has been not Germany, but the Soviet
Union.”  And  he  warned  that  our  relations  with  the  USSR  would  become
hopeless “if we yield at all to those who, to say it flatly, are thinking of the
international organization as a means of policing the Soviet Union.”

	I think it is no exaggeration to say that since last week, when Lippmann
wrote  what  I  have  quoted,  the  anti-Soviet  atmosphere  has  grown.  It  is  no
longer  a  question  of  not  “yielding”  to  the  men  Lippmann  has  in  mind.
They are, if not running the show, at least playing the dominant part in the
American delegation and in the conference.

	Some of them have been very open and very indiscreet in voicing their
anti-Soviet views at the social functions in which celebrity-dazed San Fran-
cisco  has  been  lionizing  them.  They  have  been  equally  open  in  spreading
anti-Soviet  propaganda  “off  the  record”  to  correspondents  who  are  their
confidants or mouthpieces.


Some thing, making it sound like a bad-thing without explaining why

	In an atmosphere of this kind one may be sure that the realistic Russians,
who understand perfectly well what is going on, will make few concessions
on Poland and other areas important to the security of the USSR. They are
no  more  willing  than  are  the  French  to  rely  for  their  security  solely  on  a
new world organization, especially one born in such circumstances.

	If  this  seems  wicked  of  them,  it  may  well  be  kept  in  mind  that  the
United States Navy, on the question of international trusteeship, is equally
unwilling to accept the new organization as a substitute for effective Amer-
ican control of the Pacific islands and perhaps some of the African territo-
ries where it considers bases necessary to our own security.

Some moral relativism thing, "we do it too so OK for them to do it" (and doubtful we do the same generally). In this case iirc they invaded Europe then annexed them...

------

Unnoticed News Bulletin


Stone ~~outraged~~ that Germany allowed to have an industry after WW2. Why not have a treaty of Versailles part 2?

And they sanctioned the Soviet Union--the hypocrisy!!

	Thus the old familiar Nazi line of the need to strengthen the Reich as a
bulwark  against  Bolshevism  reappears  in  a  Congressional  report,  less  than
two years after the second World War ended, and it reappears in a context
suggesting  that  America’s  principal  postwar  concern  is  preparation  for  a
third world war, this time against the USSR.

U.S. said the same thing sort-of that the Nazis said once, therefore they are Nazis!


------

Shall We Take the Gamble Hitler Lost?

Invading the Soviet Union???? JUST LIKE HITLER


------

A Chill falls on Washington


	It is difficult to pursue dignified and rational policy when official propa-
ganda  has  built  up  so  distorted  a  picture  of  Russia.  Many  Americans  fed
constantly  on  the  notion  that  the  Soviet  Union  is  a  vast  slave  labor  camp
must  have  wondered  why  the  masses  did  not  rise  now  that  the  oppressor
had vanished. The Bolshevik Revolution is still regarded here as a kind of
diabolic accident. The necessities imposed on rulers by the character of the
countries they rule is ignored. To understand it would be to put the prob-
lem of peaceful relations with Russia in quite a different perspective and to
dissipate febrile delusions about “liberation.”


Seems like everything he does is the same... "see this idea that the Kremlin doesn't like? This idea is stupid!"


	Every  great  leader  is  the  reflection  of  the  people  he  leads  and  Stalin  in
this  sense  was  Russia.  He  was  also  the  leader  of  something  new  in  world
history, a party: a party in a new sense, like nothing the world has known
since the Society of Jesus, a party ruling a one-party state. It is this differ-
ence which makes nonsense of prediction by analogy based on the principle
of legitimacy in monarchy or the later history of the Roman empire. Strug-
gle among the party leaders occurred after the death of Lenin and may oc-
cur after the death of Stalin, but the party itself provides a cement strong
enough to hold the state together despite such struggles. To regard this as a
group of conspirators may prove a fatal error. This is a movement, with a
philosophy comparable to the great religions in its capacity to evoke devo-
tion,  and  based  on  certain  economic  realities  which  give  it  a  constructive
function. It has proved itself capable of industrializing Russia and opening
new vistas to its masses, and this is its appeal to similar areas in Asia. This is
a  challenge  which  can  only  be  met  by  peaceful  competition,  for  only  in
peace can the West preserve what it has to offer, and that is the tradition of
individual liberty and free thought.

It is time in the wake of Stalin’s death to recognize two basic facts about
the world we live in. One fact is Russia. The other is the Communist move-
ment. The surest way to wreck what remains of capitalism and intellectual
freedom in the non-Communist world today is blindly to go on refusing to
recognize these facts and refusing to adjust ourselves to coexistence on the
same  planet  with  them.  Eisenhower  in  leaving  the  door  discreetly  ajar  to
possible negotiations with Stalin’s successor was wise, and the lesser powers
should seize on the sobering moment to urge Washington and Moscow to
get together.


All he does is spew bullshit in flower language, no argument to counter even...

Stone substitutes sounding like he knows what he's talking about for logic


------

Natasha’s Ready Answers


------

Legacy of Stalin


	In  this,  the  fourth  dispatch  from  Stone’s  trip  to  Eastern  Europe,  he  offers  his
summation of what he sees as the essentially repressive and dishonest nature of
the  Soviet  system.  Feeling  personally  sympathetic  with  the  goals  of  socialism
and strongly averse to giving support to the jingoist anti-Soviet element in Amer-
ican  society,  Stone  found  it  painful  to  have  to  offer  such  a  diagnosis,  but  his
commitment to journalistic honesty—as well as his love of freedom as the single
deepest human value—left him no alternative. Angry reactions by “fellow travel-
ing” sympathizers with the Soviet regime are said to have cost Stone 400 sub-
scriptions to the 
Weekly.


Interesting, so Stone had some Stalinite readers? but he "took a tough stance" against Stalin to prove e wasn't his agent or something


	Whatever the consequences, I have to say what I really feel
after  seeing  the  Soviet  Union  and  carefully  studying  the  statements  of  its
leading officials. 
This is not a good society and it is not led by honest men.

Well he's right there. Does he explain why this time?

kindof does

	No society is good in which men fear to think—much less speak—freely.
I don’t care how many tons of steel the Russians produce. It is not by the
volume of its steel but by the character of the men it produces that a society
must be judged. The kind of men Russia has produced is the kind which
must always be wary, quick to sense any change in the wind and adjust to it,
careful never to give way to the anguish of seeing injustice, always guarding
one’s tongue, alert to survive at whatever cost to one’s neighbor.

right

	It  is  that  Stalinism  was  the
natural fruit of the whole spirit of the Communist movement. The wanton
executions,  the  frame-ups,  the  unjust  convictions  and  exiles—these  would
not  have  been  possible  except  in  a  movement  whose  members  had  been
taught not only to obey unquestioningly but to 
hate.
The average Commu-
nist was prepared to believe anything about anyone who differed with him in
the slightest; the liquidation of the opposition was not just a duty but a savage
pleasure. And if “errors” were occasionally made, these were the unavoidable
sacrifices  of  the  revolution.  This  was  the  spirit  the  Communist  movement
bred. Stalin embodied that spirit

Comes out that he hates (supposedly) Communism here?


------


Almost as Safe as Ivory Soap Is Pure?


Seems similar to their propaganda today? whipping up fear of nuclear war


------

The Mythology of the Anti-Missile Missile

"if you think anti-missiles will help you are stupid"

although he kindof argues against a strawman who thinks anti-missiles will solve everything (who thinks that?)


------

Fresh Light on the 
Mystery of the Missiles

Written after a visit to Cuba just three months after the near-disaster of the mis-
sile crisis, this essay offers an unusual perspective on the U.S.-Cuban standoff,
analyzing it in the light of the growing rifts within the Communist bloc—an al-
liance that many hard-line Western observers still regarded as monolithically uni-
fied.  Pointing  out  the  strategic,  ideological,  and  personal  differences  among
Russia, China, Cuba, and the Eastern European nations, Stone calls for a “flexi-
ble and pragmatic” American policy as the best long-term hope for peace.

"flexible and pragmatic"


------

Stone writes on this:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anne_Braden

What was the purpose of all this? make anti-communism seem racist?

Stone writes how all the HUAC people were tight with the Ku-Klux Klan

then it turns out that Dickstein is working for the communists too. hmmm....


	The Bradens walked through the valley of the shadow of the witch hunt.
An FBI informer perjured herself to call Braden a Communist; he denied it
under  oath.  The  House  Un-American  Committee  sent  down  agents  to
frighten Andrew Wade, the Negro they had risked so much to help, and got
him  to  say  things  one  only  says  about  a  man  and  a  woman  one  does  not
trust.  The  transcript  of  what  Wade  said  in  a  moment  of  weakness  gave
Anne  Braden  the  most  terrible  moment  of  the  whole  experience,  one  in
which she felt “that the things we had been working for—a world without
segregation,  a  world  of  understanding  and  brotherhood—had  turned  to
dust in my hand.” 


Stone says Wade's testimony was forced (where have I heard this before? I think in the coverage of the Bo Xilai case?)


------

http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/jcws.2009.11.3.144
	When Stone died in June 1989 at the age of 81, all three major television networks announced his death on their news shows as if he were a household name rather than a print journalist whos work had appeared primarily in elite publications normally associated with the country's intelligentsia.


Interesting--an indicator of how much of the media working for the Russians?

something like... damn near all of them
