https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yuri_Andropov
	Andropov aimed to achieve "the destruction of dissent in all its forms" and always insisted that "the struggle for human rights was a part of a wide-ranging imperialist plot to undermine the foundation of the Soviet state".[9] By the time he became Secretary General of the Soviet Communist Party in 1982 Andropov had successfully suppressed dissent in the USSR by a mixture of repression, wide use of psychiatric prison hospitals, and pressure on rights activists and other dissidents to emigrate from the Soviet Union.


Andropov not a fan of human rights?


	...Andropov opposed the decision to intervene militarily in Afghanistan on 24 December 1979.[25] Among his concerns was that the international community would blame the USSR for this action.


smart, evil


	...From 1980 to 1982, while still chairman of the KGB, Andropov opposed plans to occupy Poland after the emergence of the Solidarity movement and promoted reform-minded party cadres including Mikhail Gorbachev.


a fan of Gorbachev...why?

	...Two days after Leonid Brezhnev's death, on 12 November 1982, Andropov was elected General Secretary of the CPSU, the first former head of the KGB to become General Secretary. His appointment was received in the West with apprehension, in view of his roles in the KGB and in Hungary. At the time his personal background was a mystery in the West, with major newspapers printing detailed profiles of him that were inconsistent and in several cases fabricated.[31]

	During his rule, Andropov attempted to improve the economy by raising management effectiveness without changing the principles of socialist economy. In contrast to Brezhnev's policy of avoiding conflicts and dismissals, he began to fight violations of party, state and labour discipline, which led to significant personnel changes during an anti-corruption campaign against many of Brezhnev's cronies.[7] During 15 months in office, Andropov dismissed 18 ministers, and 37 first secretaries of obkoms, kraikoms and Central Committees of Communist Parties of Soviet Republics; criminal cases on highest party and state officials were started. For the first time, the facts about economic stagnation and obstacles to scientific progress were made available to the public and criticised.[32]


reminds me of Putin


	...Cold War tensions were exacerbated by Soviet fighters downing a civilian jet liner, Korean Air Flight KAL-007, which carried 269 passengers and crew, including a congressman from Georgia, Larry McDonald. KAL 007 had strayed over the Soviet Union on 1 September 1983 on its way from Anchorage, Alaska, to Seoul, South Korea. Andropov was advised by his Defence Minister Dmitriy Ustinov and by the head of the KGB Viktor Chebrikov to keep secret the fact that the Soviet Union held in its possession the sought-after "black box" from KAL 007.


assassinated a Congressman?


hmm, Andropov evil, promotes Gorbachev, who is "good" and relieves West with "reforms." U.S. Soviet relations deteriorate under Andropov

this a part of some kind of plan? could think: might as well be evil, can "get away with it" by installing a "good" leader later. And so have cycles of expanding power, consolidating. Same thinking in their use of ceas-fires.

Don't trust Navalny.
